{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2639
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red88\green37\blue132;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red70\green70\blue70;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c42353\c22745\c58824;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c34510\c34510\c34510;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{square\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u9642 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs40 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Observations on the Scottish Dialect\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf0 \cb3 \strokec4 Author(s): Sinclair, Sir John\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \cb5 \strokec3 Options:\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa200\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf3 \cb5 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9642 
\f0 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Information about document and author\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb5 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9642 
\f0 	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.scottishcorpus.ac.uk/cmsw/colour/?documentid=148"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 View 253 colour images}}\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb5 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9642 
\f0 	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.scottishcorpus.ac.uk/cmsw/grey/?documentid=148"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 View 252 greyscale images}}\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb5 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9642 
\f0 	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.scottishcorpus.ac.uk/cmsw/view-plaintext/?documentid=148"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 View plain text}}\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb5 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9642 
\f0 	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.scottishcorpus.ac.uk/cmsw/download-plaintext/?documentid=148"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Download plain text}}\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb5 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9642 
\f0 	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.scottishcorpus.ac.uk/cmsw/document/?documentid=148#"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Cite this document}}\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf3 \cb5 Highlight word:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\fs40 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Text\
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 \strokec4 ADVERTISEMENT.\cb1 \
\cb3 IT was the full per\uc0\u383 ua\u383 ion that a\cb1 \
\cb3 Collection of Scotici\uc0\u383 ms would be\cb1 \
\cb3 of u\uc0\u383 e to my countrymen, not the vanity\cb1 \
\cb3 of being thought an Author,\cb1 \
\cb3 which gave ri\uc0\u383 e to the following Publication.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 In compo\uc0\u383 ing the Work, the Collection\cb1 \
\cb3 annexed by Mr. Hume to the fir\uc0\u383 t\cb1 \
\cb3 Edition of his Political Di\uc0\u383 cour\u383 es, and\cb1 \
\cb3 the Remarks made on the Scotti\uc0\u383 h Dialect\cb1 \
\cb3 by Dr. Beattie and Mr. Elphin\uc0\u383 ton,\cb1 \
\cb3 were of e\uc0\u383 \u383 ential u\u383 e. The Author was\cb1 \
\cb3 al\uc0\u383 o favoured with the a\u383 \u383 i\u383 tance of\cb1 \
\cb3 other Gentlemen, not unacquainted\cb1 \
\cb3 with philological \uc0\u383 tudies, who expunged\cb1 \
\cb3 many errors he had inadvertently\cb1 \
\cb3 fallen into, and added many\cb1 \
\cb3 ingenious Ob\uc0\u383 ervations, which otherwi\u383 e\cb1 \
\cb3 might have been lo\uc0\u383 t.\cb1 \
\cb3 But, notwith\uc0\u383 tanding every po\u383 \u383 ible\cb1 \
\cb3 attention, the fir\uc0\u383 t edition of a work\cb1 \
\cb3 of this nature mu\uc0\u383 t be deficient in\cb1 \
\cb3 many important particulars; and can\cb1 \
\cb3 never be brought to any tolerable degree\cb1 \
\cb3 of perfection, without the united\cb1 \
\cb3 efforts of almo\uc0\u383 t every individual conver\u383 ant\cb1 \
\cb3 in \uc0\u383 uch \u383 ubjects. The Author\cb1 \
\cb3 has therefore been led (though prudence\cb1 \
\cb3 would have dictated otherwi\uc0\u383 e)\cb1 \
\cb3 to prefix his name to a performance,\cb1 \
\cb3 in many re\uc0\u383 pects imperfect,\cb1 \
\cb3 tru\uc0\u383 ting that tho\u383 e who are friends to\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 uch an undertaking, will exert them\u383 elves\cb1 \
\cb3 in its behalf, and will favour\cb1 \
\cb3 him with their remarks, a\uc0\u383 \u383 i\u383 tance,\cb1 \
\cb3 and corretion.\cb1 \
\cb3 Park-Street, We\uc0\u383 tmin\u383 ter,\cb1 \
\cb3 January, 1782.\cb1 \
\cb3 CONTENTS.\cb1 \
\cb3 Page\cb1 \
\cb3 THE INTRODUCTION, 1\cb1 \
\cb3 CHAP. I.\cb1 \
\cb3 Phra\uc0\u383 es peculiar to Scotland, 11\cb1 \
\cb3 CHAP. II.\cb1 \
\cb3 Words peculiar to the Scots, or which\cb1 \
\cb3 they u\uc0\u383 e in a \u383 en\u383 e diferent from the\cb1 \
\cb3 Engli\uc0\u383 h, 78\cb1 \
\cb3 CHAP. III.\cb1 \
\cb3 Mi\uc0\u383 cellaneous words and phra\u383 es, 142\cb1 \
\cb3 CHAP. IV.\cb1 \
\cb3 Legal and clerical words and phra\uc0\u383 es, 202\cb1 \
\cb3 ERRATA\cb1 \
\cb3 Page 4. line 18. for Scotch read Scots.\cb1 \
\cb3 119. \'97 8. for gallentree read gallontree.\cb1 \
\cb3 175. \'97 8 and 10. for Talumnius read Tolumnius.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 [ I ]\cb1 \
\cb3 THE\cb1 \
\cb3 INTRODUCTION.\cb1 \
\cb3 GRAMMATICAL di\uc0\u383 qui\u383 itions are\cb1 \
\cb3 accounted, of all others, the dulle\uc0\u383 t\cb1 \
\cb3 and mo\uc0\u383 t in\u383 ipid. To many it \u383 eems of no\cb1 \
\cb3 importance, whether this or that word\cb1 \
\cb3 expre\uc0\u383 \u383 es, with the greater purity, a particular\cb1 \
\cb3 idea: and, perhaps, it is of little\cb1 \
\cb3 con\uc0\u383 equence to any individual, who lives\cb1 \
\cb3 in a retired and di\uc0\u383 tant corner of the country,\cb1 \
\cb3 in what \uc0\u383 tile his \u383 entiments are given.\cb1 \
\cb3 His highe\uc0\u383 t ambition generally is to be under\u383 tood,\cb1 \
\cb3 not to plea\uc0\u383 e his hearers. But\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 uch as wi\u383 h to mix with the world, and\cb1 \
\cb3 particularly tho\uc0\u383 e who\u383 e object it is to have\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 ome \u383 hare in the admini\u383 tration of national\cb1 \
\cb3 affairs, are under the nece\uc0\u383 \u383 ity of conforming\cb1 \
\cb3 to the ta\uc0\u383 te, the manner, and the language\cb1 \
\cb3 of the Public. Old things mu\uc0\u383 t then\cb1 \
\cb3 be done away \'97 new manners mu\uc0\u383 t be a\u383 \u383 umed,\cb1 \
\cb3 and a new language adopted. Nor\cb1 \
\cb3 does this ob\uc0\u383 ervation apply to Scotchmen\cb1 \
\cb3 only: the \uc0\u383 ame remark may be extended\cb1 \
\cb3 to the Iri\uc0\u383 h, to the Wel\u383 h, and to the\cb1 \
\cb3 inhabitants of \uc0\u383 everal di\u383 tricts in England;\cb1 \
\cb3 all of whom have many words and\cb1 \
\cb3 phra\uc0\u383 es peculiar to them\u383 elves, which are\cb1 \
\cb3 unintelligible in the \uc0\u383 enate-hou\u383 e, and in\cb1 \
\cb3 the capital.\cb1 \
\cb3 It is not however in a private, but in a\cb1 \
\cb3 national view, and as a circum\uc0\u383 tance of\cb1 \
\cb3 importance to the Public in general, that\cb1 \
\cb3 this \uc0\u383 ubject ought properly to be con\u383 idered.\cb1 \
\cb3 Whil\uc0\u383 t \u383 o \u383 triking a difference as\cb1 \
\cb3 that of language exi\uc0\u383 ts between England\cb1 \
\cb3 and Scotland, antient local prejudices will\cb1 \
\cb3 not be removed; nor can it be expected that\cb1 \
\cb3 two neighbouring nations, which, though\cb1 \
\cb3 now \uc0\u383 o happily united, were for many\cb1 \
\cb3 ages at variance with each other, will be able\cb1 \
\cb3 to con\uc0\u383 ider them\u383 elves as the \u383 ame people.\cb1 \
\cb3 A late eminent State\uc0\u383 man (Archibald Duke\cb1 \
\cb3 of Argyle) thought a re\uc0\u383 emblance or identity\cb1 \
\cb3 of language of \uc0\u383 uch real national importance,\cb1 \
\cb3 that he is \uc0\u383 aid to have furni\u383 hed\cb1 \
\cb3 Mr. Hume with the materials of his printed\cb1 \
\cb3 collection *. Of late many Scotch authors\cb1 \
\cb3 have \uc0\u383 hewn an uncommon degree of attention\cb1 \
\cb3 to the purity of their \uc0\u383 tile and diction:\cb1 \
\cb3 and if they had publi\uc0\u383 hed the di\u383 coveries\cb1 \
\cb3 which their knowledge and experience\cb1 \
\cb3 in compo\uc0\u383 ition taught them, it would\cb1 \
\cb3 * I mention this upon the authority of that eminent\cb1 \
\cb3 phy\uc0\u383 ician Dr. Cullen, who\u383 e connexion and intimacy\cb1 \
\cb3 with the family of Argyle are well known.\cb1 \
\cb3 have rendered the\uc0\u383 e ob\u383 ervations unnece\u383 \u383 ary.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 But before we proceed to examine the\cb1 \
\cb3 differences between the Scotch and Engli\uc0\u383 h\cb1 \
\cb3 dialects, it may not be improper to make a\cb1 \
\cb3 few \uc0\u383 hort ob\u383 ervations upon the origin of\cb1 \
\cb3 the Scotti\uc0\u383 h dialect, and to explain the\cb1 \
\cb3 means by which it became, even in an\cb1 \
\cb3 early period, \uc0\u383 o general and \u383 o prevalent in\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotland.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Scotch language is acknowledged to\cb1 \
\cb3 be a dialect of the Saxon or Old Engli\uc0\u383 h,\cb1 \
\cb3 with \uc0\u383 ome trifling variations. Indeed the\cb1 \
\cb3 two languages originally were \uc0\u383 o nearly\cb1 \
\cb3 the \uc0\u383 ame, that the principal differences at\cb1 \
\cb3 pre\uc0\u383 ent between them, are owing to the\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotch having retained many words and\cb1 \
\cb3 phra\uc0\u383 es which have fallen into di\u383 u\u383 e among\cb1 \
\cb3 the Engli\uc0\u383 h.\cb1 \
\cb3 At fir\uc0\u383 t, it \u383 eems difficult to account for\cb1 \
\cb3 the introduction of a dialect of the Saxon\cb1 \
\cb3 into a country where the Er\uc0\u383 e or Gaelic\cb1 \
\cb3 was \uc0\u383 poken; a language not a little celebrated\cb1 \
\cb3 for its \uc0\u383 trength and beauty. It\cb1 \
\cb3 mu\uc0\u383 t \u383 trike every one as an uncommon\cb1 \
\cb3 circum\uc0\u383 tance, that the language of England\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 hould prevail in a \u383 tate, the members\cb1 \
\cb3 of which had a rooted enmity to the Engli\uc0\u383 h\cb1 \
\cb3 name: and \uc0\u383 ome authors have thought\cb1 \
\cb3 it nece\uc0\u383 \u383 ary to account for \u383 o \u383 ingular a\cb1 \
\cb3 phenomenon, by endeavouring to trace a\cb1 \
\cb3 remote connection between the Scots and\cb1 \
\cb3 Engli\uc0\u383 h, even in the fore\u383 ts of Germany\cb1 \
\cb3 *.\cb1 \
\cb3 * "Nay, they (the Scots) might even bring the\cb1 \
\cb3 "language they \uc0\u383 peak (namely, the Broad Scotch)\cb1 \
\cb3 "out of Germany. For Tacitus tells us the \'c6\uc0\u383 tyii,\cb1 \
\cb3 "a people of German Scythia, a little to the north of\cb1 \
\cb3 "Brandenburgh, \uc0\u383 poke a language that came nearer to\cb1 \
\cb3 "the Briti\uc0\u383 h, though they followed the cu\u383 toms and\cb1 \
\cb3 Others, however, are \uc0\u383 atisfied with carrying\cb1 \
\cb3 their re\uc0\u383 earches as far back as the\cb1 \
\cb3 year 858, when the Saxons, under the\cb1 \
\cb3 conduct of O\uc0\u383 breth and Ella, \u383 ubdued the\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 outhern provinces of Scotland, expelled\cb1 \
\cb3 the antient po\uc0\u383 \u383 e\u383 \u383 ors, and \u383 ettled there\cb1 \
\cb3 with their adherents. It is certain that\cb1 \
\cb3 Lothian, which included the country from\cb1 \
\cb3 the Frith of Forth to the Tweed, was for\cb1 \
\cb3 many years inhabited by Saxons, and governed\cb1 \
\cb3 by the ancient Monarchs of Northumberland.\cb1 \
\cb3 The inhabitants of that country,\cb1 \
\cb3 though afterwards \uc0\u383 ubdued by the\cb1 \
\cb3 Scots, retained the manners and language\cb1 \
\cb3 of their progenitors: and when Edinburgh,\cb1 \
\cb3 "habits of the Suevians. Now we know from Pto"lemy\cb1 \
\cb3 and Tacitus, that the Angles or Engli\uc0\u383 h were\cb1 \
\cb3 "Suevians; which makes it more than probable, that\cb1 \
\cb3 "the Engli\uc0\u383 h and Scotti\u383 h were neighbours in Ger"many,\cb1 \
\cb3 before they dwelt together in Britain."\cb1 \
\cb3 Free's E\uc0\u383 \u383 ay on the Engli\u383 h Tongue, 3d Edit. p. 118.\cb1 \
\cb3 the principal city of Lothian, became the\cb1 \
\cb3 capital of Scotland, a dialect of the Saxon,\cb1 \
\cb3 the language of that province, gradually\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 pread it\u383 elf from the metropolis of the\cb1 \
\cb3 kingdom, to its mo\uc0\u383 t northern extremities.\cb1 \
\cb3 To this we may add, that many Saxons\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 ettled in Scotland under the au\u383 pices of\cb1 \
\cb3 Malcolm Caenmore, and fled thither from\cb1 \
\cb3 William the Norman's tyranny and oppre\uc0\u383 \u383 ion\cb1 \
\cb3 *. And as that country, even in\cb1 \
\cb3 * "The Normans having thus \uc0\u383 ettled them\u383 elves in\cb1 \
\cb3 "England, Prince Edgar, with his mother and two\cb1 \
\cb3 "\uc0\u383 i\u383 ters, and \u383 uch of the Engli\u383 h nobility as adhered\cb1 \
\cb3 "to him, or could not endure the in\uc0\u383 olence of the\cb1 \
\cb3 "Normans, withdrew them\uc0\u383 elves into Scotland.\cb1 \
\cb3 "And Malcolm, the third of that name, having mar"ried\cb1 \
\cb3 Margaret, the elder of the two \uc0\u383 i\u383 ters, the Scot"ti\u383 h\cb1 \
\cb3 court, by rea\uc0\u383 on of the Queen, and the many\cb1 \
\cb3 "Engli\uc0\u383 h that were with her, began to \u383 peak Engli\u383 h.\cb1 \
\cb3 "Moreover, many of the Engli\uc0\u383 h nobility and gentry,\cb1 \
\cb3 "that now came into Scotland, were, by the benevolater\cb1 \
\cb3 ages, was always a \uc0\u383 ecure a\u383 ylum to\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 uch of the Engli\u383 h as thought them\u383 elves\cb1 \
\cb3 injured by their own Monarchs, it became\cb1 \
\cb3 the u\uc0\u383 ual place of their retreat. From them\cb1 \
\cb3 many of the fir\uc0\u383 t families now in Scotland\cb1 \
\cb3 derive their origin; who\uc0\u383 e example and\cb1 \
\cb3 influence could not fail to render the\cb1 \
\cb3 Engli\uc0\u383 h language more generally adopted.\cb1 \
\cb3 It ought al\uc0\u383 o to be ob\u383 erved, that it is\cb1 \
\cb3 very natural for an inferior kingdom to\cb1 \
\cb3 imitate the manners and language of a\cb1 \
\cb3 wealthier and more powerful neighbour:\cb1 \
\cb3 a circum\uc0\u383 tance \u383 till more to be expected,\cb1 \
\cb3 when both nations came to be governed\cb1 \
\cb3 "lence of the King, \uc0\u383 o preferred in one condition or\cb1 \
\cb3 "other, that they there \uc0\u383 ettling them\u383 elves, their off"\u383 pring\cb1 \
\cb3 have \uc0\u383 ince \u383 pread them\u383 elves into \u383 undry very\cb1 \
\cb3 "noble families, which are yet, unto this day, there\cb1 \
\cb3 "remaining, and by their \uc0\u383 urnames to be di\u383 cerned."\cb1 \
\cb3 Ver\uc0\u383 tegan's Re\u383 tit. of decayed Intell. p. 193. 195,\cb1 \
\cb3 and 196.\cb1 \
\cb3 by the \uc0\u383 ame King, who \u383 eldom vi\u383 ited Scotland,\cb1 \
\cb3 and who would not offend the prejudices\cb1 \
\cb3 of his new \uc0\u383 ubjects, by permitting\cb1 \
\cb3 any other language to be made u\uc0\u383 e of at\cb1 \
\cb3 his court, than that of England.\cb1 \
\cb3 During the reign of James the Fir\uc0\u383 t, the\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotch and Engli\uc0\u383 h dialects, \u383 o far as we\cb1 \
\cb3 can judge by comparing the language of\cb1 \
\cb3 the writers who flouri\uc0\u383 hed at that time,\cb1 \
\cb3 were not \uc0\u383 o di\u383 \u383 imilar as they are at pre\u383 ent.\cb1 \
\cb3 Time, however, and commerce, joined to the\cb1 \
\cb3 efforts of many ingenious men, have \uc0\u383 ince\cb1 \
\cb3 introduced various alterations and improvements\cb1 \
\cb3 into the Engli\uc0\u383 h language, which, from\cb1 \
\cb3 ignorance, inattention, or national prejudices,\cb1 \
\cb3 have not always penetrated into the\cb1 \
\cb3 north. But the time, it is hoped, will \uc0\u383 oon\cb1 \
\cb3 arrive, when a difference, \uc0\u383 o obvious to\cb1 \
\cb3 the meane\uc0\u383 t capacity, \u383 hall no longer exi\u383 t\cb1 \
\cb3 between two countries by nature \uc0\u383 o intimately\cb1 \
\cb3 connected. In garb, in manners,\cb1 \
\cb3 in government, we are the \uc0\u383 ame; and if\cb1 \
\cb3 the \uc0\u383 ame language were \u383 poken on both\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 ides of the Tweed, \u383 ome \u383 mall diver\u383 ity in\cb1 \
\cb3 our laws and eccle\uc0\u383 ia\u383 tical e\u383 tabli\u383 hments\cb1 \
\cb3 excepted, no \uc0\u383 triking mark of di\u383 tinction\cb1 \
\cb3 would remain between the \uc0\u383 ons of England\cb1 \
\cb3 and Caledonia.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Author of this little performance,\cb1 \
\cb3 with plea\uc0\u383 ure contributes his mite to a\cb1 \
\cb3 purpo\uc0\u383 e \u383 o truly de\u383 irable.\cb1 \
\cb3 [ II ]\cb1 \
\cb3 OBSERVATIONS\cb1 \
\cb3 ON THE\cb1 \
\cb3 SCOTTISH DIALECT.\cb1 \
\cb3 CHAP. 1,\cb1 \
\cb3 Phra\uc0\u383 es peculiar to Scotland\cb1 \
\cb3 THOSE who pay attention to their\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 tile and manner of expre\u383 \u383 ion,\cb1 \
\cb3 may not improperly be arranged\cb1 \
\cb3 into two cla\uc0\u383 \u383 es: into tho\u383 e who are fond\cb1 \
\cb3 of needle\uc0\u383 sly introducing new words and\cb1 \
\cb3 phra\uc0\u383 es, and into \u383 uch as are determined\cb1 \
\cb3 enemies to innovation. Few hit that proper\cb1 \
\cb3 medium which Pope has \uc0\u383 o well inculcated,\cb1 \
\
\cb3 "Be not the fir\uc0\u383 t, by whom the new are try'd,\cb1 \
\cb3 "Nor yet the la\uc0\u383 t, to lay the old a\u383 ide."\cb1 \
\cb3 Languages, it is certain, are \uc0\u383 ubject\cb1 \
\cb3 to a variety of alterations, and at fir\uc0\u383 t\cb1 \
\cb3 they ought to be \uc0\u383 o. The \u383 ame \u383 ounds\cb1 \
\cb3 which are well calculated to expre\uc0\u383 s the\cb1 \
\cb3 rough \uc0\u383 entiments of a tribe of warlike Barbarians,\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 uch as the Saxons were when\cb1 \
\cb3 they fir\uc0\u383 t landed in this i\u383 land, are found,\cb1 \
\cb3 by experience, too har\uc0\u383 h and rugged for\cb1 \
\cb3 the nicer feelings of their po\uc0\u383 terity. Nor\cb1 \
\cb3 indeed can it be expected, that \uc0\u383 uch a\cb1 \
\cb3 language \uc0\u383 hould be able to expre\u383 s the va\u383 t\cb1 \
\cb3 accumulation of new and varied ideas that\cb1 \
\cb3 nece\uc0\u383 \u383 arily ari\u383 e in a learned and commercial\cb1 \
\cb3 nation. There are few who will not\cb1 \
\cb3 allow, that it was requi\uc0\u383 ite to \u383 often and\cb1 \
\cb3 improve the barbarous dialect brought into\cb1 \
\cb3 Britain by Hengi\uc0\u383 t and Hor\u383 a, de\u383 cribed\cb1 \
\cb3 by the Hi\uc0\u383 torian of the Engli\u383 h language\cb1 \
\cb3 as a \uc0\u383 peech cur\u383 ory and extemporaneous,\cb1 \
\cb3 abrupt and unconnected, and probably,\cb1 \
\cb3 without even an alphabet *.\cb1 \
\cb3 But, on the other hand, it may be ob\uc0\u383 erved,\cb1 \
\cb3 that there is a point beyond which\cb1 \
\cb3 alterations ought not to be ra\uc0\u383 hly complied\cb1 \
\cb3 with, and mu\uc0\u383 t prove equally pernicious,\cb1 \
\cb3 whether their object be to introduce new,\cb1 \
\cb3 or to explode old and well-known words\cb1 \
\cb3 and phra\uc0\u383 es. Indeed, when a language (as\cb1 \
\cb3 was the ca\uc0\u383 e with that of England in the\cb1 \
\cb3 reign of Queen Anne) has once acquired\cb1 \
\cb3 an ample \uc0\u383 hare of \u383 trength, copiou\u383 ne\u383 s\cb1 \
\cb3 and beauty, material changes are \uc0\u383 eldom\cb1 \
\cb3 nece\uc0\u383 \u383 ary, and in general ought to be carefully\cb1 \
\cb3 avoided.\cb1 \
\cb3 * Vide John\uc0\u383 on's Hi\u383 t, of the Engli\u383 h Language,\cb1 \
\cb3 in his Folio Dictionary.\cb1 \
\cb3 If that age, therefore, is to be con\uc0\u383 idered\cb1 \
\cb3 as the cla\uc0\u383 \u383 ical period of the Engli\u383 h language,\cb1 \
\cb3 a Scotici\uc0\u383 m may be defined to be\cb1 \
\cb3 that mode of \uc0\u383 peaking or writing (for it\cb1 \
\cb3 is difficult to draw the line between colloquial\cb1 \
\cb3 and written idioms) which now\cb1 \
\cb3 prevails in Scotland, and is neither at this\cb1 \
\cb3 time generally known in England, nor\cb1 \
\cb3 was current at the \'e6ra we have mentioned.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 The following idioms, which, it is pre\uc0\u383 umed,\cb1 \
\cb3 come under that de\uc0\u383 cription, are\cb1 \
\cb3 tho\uc0\u383 e which the Author has had an opportunity\cb1 \
\cb3 of remarking.\cb1 \
\cb3 SCOTCH and ENGLISH\cb1 \
\cb3 DIALECTS.\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotch.To want for any thing.\cb1 \
\cb3 Engli\uc0\u383 h. To be without any thing not\cb1 \
\cb3 de\uc0\u383 irable.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. Though the plague raged in London,\cb1 \
\cb3 we wanted it (in\uc0\u383 tead of we had it not, or\cb1 \
\cb3 were without it) in Scotland *.\cb1 \
\cb3 To cau\uc0\u383 e a per\u383 on to do any thing.\cb1 \
\cb3 To make a per\uc0\u383 on do any thing.\cb1 \
\cb3 * The verb want, \uc0\u383 ays Dr. BEATTIE, denotes, I. To\cb1 \
\cb3 wi\uc0\u383 h for. Ex. What do you want? I want a candle.\cb1 \
\cb3 2. To be without \uc0\u383 omething fit, nece\u383 \u383 ary, or good. Ex.\cb1 \
\cb3 He wants his \uc0\u383 ight. 3. To be without \u383 omething not\cb1 \
\cb3 good, or de\uc0\u383 irable: but in this \u383 en\u383 e it is never u\u383 ed, unle\u383 s\cb1 \
\cb3 preceded by a negative. Thus, "They never want\cb1 \
\cb3 "the plague at Con\uc0\u383 tantinople," is good Englifh; but it\cb1 \
\cb3 would be reckoned a Scotici\uc0\u383 m to \u383 ay, "By the la\u383 t ac"counts\cb1 \
\cb3 from the Levant, it appears they wanted the\cb1 \
\cb3 "plague at Con\uc0\u383 tantinople."\cb1 \
\cb3 U\uc0\u383 ing cau\u383 e for make, is a frequent and\cb1 \
\cb3 obnoxious Scotici\uc0\u383 m.\cb1 \
\cb3 To do bidding.\cb1 \
\cb3 To do what is bidden or ordered.\cb1 \
\cb3 Hinder to do.\cb1 \
\cb3 Hinder from doing.\cb1 \
\cb3 "Hindered not Satan to pervert the mind,"\cb1 \
\cb3 may be found in Milton; but that idiom, if it\cb1 \
\cb3 was not originally a poetical licence, is now\cb1 \
\cb3 ob\uc0\u383 olete. "Contented him\u383 el\u383  to do," in\u383 tead\cb1 \
\cb3 of "contented him\uc0\u383 elf with doing," is al\u383 o\cb1 \
\cb3 exceptionable.\cb1 \
\cb3 To do any thing to purpo\uc0\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 To do any thing to the, or to good, purpo\uc0\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 A purpo\uc0\u383 e-like per\u383 on is al\u383 o erroneou\u383 ly\cb1 \
\cb3 made u\uc0\u383 e of in Scotland, for a per\u383 on \u383 eemingly\cb1 \
\cb3 well qualified for any particular bu\uc0\u383 ine\u383 s\cb1 \
\cb3 or employment.\cb1 \
\cb3 He behoved to do it.\cb1 \
\cb3 It behoved him, he mu\uc0\u383 t or was obliged, to\cb1 \
\cb3 do it.\cb1 \
\cb3 There is no word that Scotch authors are\cb1 \
\cb3 more apt to u\uc0\u383 e improperly than the word\cb1 \
\cb3 behove, which is \uc0\u383 eldom made u\u383 e of by\cb1 \
\cb3 Engli\uc0\u383 h writers, except in very \u383 olemn \u383 tile;\cb1 \
\cb3 and even then only imper\uc0\u383 onally.\cb1 \
\cb3 To affront any one.\cb1 \
\cb3 To eclip\uc0\u383 e, or get the better of any one.\cb1 \
\cb3 This \uc0\u383 en\u383 e of the word affront, according\cb1 \
\cb3 to Dr. John\uc0\u383 on, is peculiar to the Scotti\u383 h\cb1 \
\cb3 dialect, of which a pa\uc0\u383 \u383 age from Arbuthnot\cb1 \
\cb3 is cited as an example.\cb1 \
\cb3 To think \uc0\u383 hame.\cb1 \
\cb3 To be a\uc0\u383 hamed.\cb1 \
\cb3 To think \uc0\u383 corn., for to di\u383 dain, is old Engli\u383 h.\cb1 \
\cb3 E\uc0\u383 ther iii. 6. To think long, for, to think\cb1 \
\cb3 the time long, \uc0\u383 tands in the \u383 ame predicament.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 To notice.\cb1 \
\cb3 To take notice, or to mention.\cb1 \
\cb3 There is this difference, \uc0\u383 ays Mr. Elphin\u383 ton,\cb1 \
\cb3 between the Scotch and English\cb1 \
\cb3 dialects; that in the former, to notice, is\cb1 \
\cb3 mi\uc0\u383 applied, for to take notice, whereas in\cb1 \
\cb3 the latter, it only \uc0\u383 ignifies to give it.\cb1 \
\cb3 To draw cuts.\cb1 \
\cb3 To ca\uc0\u383 t lots.\cb1 \
\cb3 Drawing cuts, though formerly made u\uc0\u383 e\cb1 \
\cb3 of by Locke and Sidney (vide John\uc0\u383 on's\cb1 \
\cb3 Folio Dict. Voce Cut, No. 7.), and \uc0\u383 till a\cb1 \
\cb3 colloquial phra\uc0\u383 e in \u383 ome Parts of England,\cb1 \
\cb3 is now generally exploded.\cb1 \
\cb3 To tak' tent.\cb1 \
\cb3 To take heed.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 tory is told of an Engli\u383 h lady, who\cb1 \
\cb3 con\uc0\u383 ulted a phy\u383 ician from Scotland, and\cb1 \
\cb3 being de\uc0\u383 ired by him to tak' tent, under\u383 tood\cb1 \
\cb3 that tent wine was pre\uc0\u383 cribed her, which\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 he took accordingly. It is not \u383 aid what\cb1 \
\cb3 was the con\uc0\u383 equence of this mi\u383 taken pre\u383 cription;\cb1 \
\cb3 but as that \uc0\u383 pecies of wine is far\cb1 \
\cb3 from being a \uc0\u383 pecific for every di\u383 order,\cb1 \
\cb3 this is a phra\uc0\u383 e which, by the faculty at lea\u383 t,\cb1 \
\cb3 ought to be carefully avoided.\cb1 \
\cb3 To fever.\cb1 \
\cb3 To be \uc0\u383 eized with a fever.\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 teik a door.\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 hut a door.\cb1 \
\cb3 To tak' the door with one, is al\uc0\u383 o made\cb1 \
\cb3 u\uc0\u383 e of by the vulgar in Scotland, for, to\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 hut the door after one.\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 neck the door.\cb1 \
\cb3 To latch, or \uc0\u383 hut, the door.\cb1 \
\cb3 The \uc0\u383 neck, or \u383 necket, of a door, is\cb1 \
\cb3 the latch, by which the doors of the\cb1 \
\cb3 common people are generally fa\uc0\u383 tened.\cb1 \
\cb3 This, and \uc0\u383 ome other phrases which are\cb1 \
\cb3 accounted Scotici\uc0\u383 ms, are not uncommon\cb1 \
\cb3 in \uc0\u383 ome parts of England, particularly in\cb1 \
\cb3 the North; but a phra\uc0\u383 e being provincial\cb1 \
\cb3 or current among the vulgar in England,\cb1 \
\cb3 is no rea\uc0\u383 on why it \u383 hould be made u\u383 e of\cb1 \
\cb3 by \uc0\u383 uch Scotchmen as with to be di\u383 tingui\u383 hed\cb1 \
\cb3 by the elegance of their \uc0\u383 tile, or the\cb1 \
\cb3 purity of their expre\uc0\u383 \u383 ion.\cb1 \
\cb3 To give one a hat.\cb1 \
\cb3 To make a bow to any one.\cb1 \
\cb3 To give one a hat, in the common dialect\cb1 \
\cb3 of Scotland, does not imply, making the pre\uc0\u383 ent\cb1 \
\cb3 of a hat to a per\uc0\u383 on, but only pulling it\cb1 \
\cb3 off, as a mark of re\uc0\u383 pect and attention.\cb1 \
\cb3 To make \uc0\u383 ongs on one.\cb1 \
\cb3 To prai\uc0\u383 e one much.\cb1 \
\cb3 To make \uc0\u383 ongs on one, in the Scotti\u383 h dialect,\cb1 \
\cb3 is to prai\uc0\u383 e one much, either in pro\u383 e or\cb1 \
\cb3 ver\uc0\u383 e. The Scotch were, formerly, much\cb1 \
\cb3 addicted to poetry; and from the cu\uc0\u383 tom,\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 o frequent in Scotland, of making \u383 ongs\cb1 \
\cb3 in prai\uc0\u383 e of a per\u383 on in ver\u383 e, that phra\u383 e\cb1 \
\cb3 came at la\uc0\u383 t to \u383 ignify, great prai\u383 es in the\cb1 \
\cb3 duller vehicle of pro\uc0\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 To make a phra\uc0\u383 e about one.\cb1 \
\cb3 To make a great work about one.\cb1 \
\cb3 To make of one.\cb1 \
\cb3 To make much of one.\cb1 \
\cb3 To make up to a lady.\cb1 \
\cb3 To make an offer of marriage to a lady.\cb1 \
\cb3 To make up to a per\uc0\u383 on, in England, only\cb1 \
\cb3 means, to advance towards a per\uc0\u383 on, and to\cb1 \
\cb3 begin a conver\uc0\u383 ation.\cb1 \
\cb3 To ca\uc0\u383 t out with a per\u383 on.\cb1 \
\cb3 To fall out with a per\uc0\u383 on.\cb1 \
\cb3 To cut out one's hair.\cb1 \
\cb3 To cut off one's hair.\cb1 \
\cb3 As cutting out, implies roots and all, it\cb1 \
\cb3 would probably be found a very cruel and\cb1 \
\cb3 dangerous operation.\cb1 \
\cb3 To follow out a plan.\cb1 \
\cb3 To carry on, execute, or fini\uc0\u383 h, a plan.\cb1 \
\cb3 To follow out a chain of rea\uc0\u383 oning.\cb1 \
\cb3 To trace out a chain of rea\uc0\u383 oning.\cb1 \
\cb3 To open up a wound.\cb1 \
\cb3 To open, or lay open, a wound.\cb1 \
\cb3 To go even up a hill.\cb1 \
\cb3 To go \uc0\u383 traight up a hill.\cb1 \
\cb3 To in\uc0\u383 i\u383 t for a thing.\cb1 \
\cb3 To in\uc0\u383 i\u383 t on, or upon, a thing.\cb1 \
\cb3 To call for a per\uc0\u383 on.\cb1 \
\cb3 To call on a per\uc0\u383 on.\cb1 \
\cb3 To call for, is to demand; to call on, is to\cb1 \
\cb3 vi\uc0\u383 it. This di\u383 tinction ought to be attended\cb1 \
\cb3 to.\cb1 \
\cb3 To wait on a per\uc0\u383 on.\cb1 \
\cb3 To wait for a per\uc0\u383 on.\cb1 \
\cb3 To wait on a per\uc0\u383 on, implies his being\cb1 \
\cb3 pre\uc0\u383 ent, and your attending him. To wait\cb1 \
\cb3 for; his being ab\uc0\u383 ent, but your expecting to\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 ee him.\cb1 \
\cb3 To tell upon one.\cb1 \
\cb3 To tell of one.\cb1 \
\cb3 To tell on one, is called, by Dr. John\uc0\u383 on,\cb1 \
\cb3 a doubtful phra\uc0\u383 e; but to tell upon one, is,\cb1 \
\cb3 without doubt, improper.\cb1 \
\cb3 To be married on one.\cb1 \
\cb3 To be married to one.\cb1 \
\cb3 Married with, I believe, is al\uc0\u383 o exploded,\cb1 \
\
\cb3 To meet one upon the \uc0\u383 treet.\cb1 \
\cb3 To meet one in the \uc0\u383 treet.\cb1 \
\cb3 To have a watch upon one.\cb1 \
\cb3 To have a watch about one.\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 ee about one.\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 ee, inquire, or look after one.\cb1 \
\cb3 One may \uc0\u383 ee about him\u383 elf, but he mu\u383 t\cb1 \
\cb3 look after another per\uc0\u383 on.\cb1 \
\cb3 Come in by.\cb1 \
\cb3 Come in, or draw near.\cb1 \
\cb3 To come into the fire.\cb1 \
\cb3 To come, or draw, near the fire.\cb1 \
\cb3 To be liable in a compen\uc0\u383 ation.\cb1 \
\cb3 To be liable to a compen\uc0\u383 ation.\cb1 \
\cb3 To make a point of honour in any thing.\cb1 \
\cb3 To make a point of honour of any thing.\cb1 \
\cb3 To be provided in a living, or office.\cb1 \
\cb3 To be provided with a living, or office.\cb1 \
\cb3 To profit from experience.\cb1 \
\cb3 To profit by experience.\cb1 \
\cb3 To blow the bellows.\cb1 \
\cb3 To blow the fire with the bellows.\cb1 \
\cb3 If blowing the bellows is Engli\uc0\u383 h, it is\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 urely a ridiculous expre\u383 \u383 ion.\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 tick any thing.\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 poil any thing in the execution.\cb1 \
\cb3 To be ill to guide.\cb1 \
\cb3 To be difficult to manage.\cb1 \
\cb3 To be a good guide of any thing.\cb1 \
\cb3 To be a good husband, or manager, of any\cb1 \
\cb3 thing.\cb1 \
\cb3 To art one to any thing.\cb1 \
\cb3 To direct or point out any thing to one.\cb1 \
\cb3 The verb art, is probably derived from\cb1 \
\cb3 the Gaelic aird, a coa\uc0\u383 t or quarter. Hence\cb1 \
\cb3 the Scots al\uc0\u383 o \u383 ay, what art, for what\cb1 \
\cb3 quarter, does the wind blow from?\cb1 \
\cb3 To fall in the gutter.\cb1 \
\cb3 To fall in the dirt.\cb1 \
\cb3 A gutter, is properly a pa\uc0\u383 \u383 age for water;\cb1 \
\cb3 not the dirt or water with which it may be\cb1 \
\cb3 filled.\cb1 \
\cb3 To be lo\uc0\u383 t in a river.\cb1 \
\cb3 To be drowned in a river.\cb1 \
\cb3 Unle\uc0\u383 s the body was lo\u383 t, as is generally\cb1 \
\cb3 the ca\uc0\u383 e at \u383 ea, and could not be di\u383 covered,\cb1 \
\cb3 the phra\uc0\u383 e is exceptionable. It is, \u383 ometimes\cb1 \
\cb3 however, made u\uc0\u383 e of in England.\cb1 \
\cb3 To be out of one's judgment.\cb1 \
\cb3 To be out of one's \uc0\u383 en\u383 es.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Scotch phra\uc0\u383 e is \u383 urely preferable,\cb1 \
\cb3 becau\uc0\u383 e a lunatic may have lo\u383 t his judgment,\cb1 \
\cb3 and yet have his \uc0\u383 en\u383 es in perfection.\cb1 \
\cb3 And if, in the Engli\uc0\u383 h phra\u383 e, it is \u383 aid, that\cb1 \
\cb3 the rea\uc0\u383 on or under\u383 tanding is meant, why\cb1 \
\cb3 is \uc0\u383 en\u383 es in the plural?\cb1 \
\cb3 To be angry at a man.\cb1 \
\cb3 To be angry with a man.\cb1 \
\cb3 Angry at, may be found in the Spectator,\cb1 \
\cb3 No. 197. in fine, but it is at pre\uc0\u383 ent confined\cb1 \
\cb3 to Scotland. Properly \uc0\u383 peaking, we\cb1 \
\cb3 may be angry at a thing, but with, and not\cb1 \
\cb3 at, a per\uc0\u383 on.\cb1 \
\cb3 To have hatred at a man.\cb1 \
\cb3 To have hatred to a man.\cb1 \
\cb3 To a\uc0\u383 k, inquire, or demand at a man.\cb1 \
\cb3 To a\uc0\u383 k, inquire, or demand of a man.\cb1 \
\cb3 To a\uc0\u383 k at, &c. is a French, and not an\cb1 \
\cb3 Engli\uc0\u383 h idiom.\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 et off on a journey.\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 et out on a journey.\cb1 \
\cb3 At lea\uc0\u383 t \u383 etting out is preferable.\cb1 \
\cb3 To look over a window.\cb1 \
\cb3 To look out at a window.\cb1 \
\cb3 To look. over a window, can only refer to\cb1 \
\cb3 a window below, and not to the one you\cb1 \
\cb3 look out at.\cb1 \
\cb3 To crave a man for a debt.\cb1 \
\cb3 To a\uc0\u383 k, demand, or dun a man for a debt.\cb1 \
\cb3 To crave a debt, or payment of a debt,\cb1 \
\cb3 cannot be objected to.\cb1 \
\cb3 To challenge, or quarrel any one.\cb1 \
\cb3 To reprove, or rebuke any one.\cb1 \
\cb3 To lay our account with an event.\cb1 \
\cb3 To expect, or previou\uc0\u383 ly apprehend an\cb1 \
\cb3 event.\cb1 \
\cb3 To meet with one's marrow.\cb1 \
\cb3 To meet with one's match or equal.\cb1 \
\cb3 Meeting with one's marrow, is an old\cb1 \
\cb3 Engli\uc0\u383 h phra\u383 e, now grown ob\u383 olete.\cb1 \
\cb3 To even one thing to another.\cb1 \
\cb3 To equal or compare one thing to another.\cb1 \
\cb3 To even, is \uc0\u383 ometimes made u\u383 e of in\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotland, for to lay out one per\uc0\u383 on for another\cb1 \
\cb3 in marriage. Nor does it matter whether\cb1 \
\cb3 the match is equal or not: generally\cb1 \
\cb3 it is unequal, and the per\uc0\u383 on who is \u383 aid to\cb1 \
\cb3 be evened to the other, has the better of the\cb1 \
\cb3 bargain.\cb1 \
\cb3 To be well appointed with a hou\uc0\u383 e, \u383 ervant,\cb1 \
\cb3 &c.\cb1 \
\cb3 To be well \uc0\u383 ettled in a hou\u383 e, and well\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 uited with a \u383 ervant.\cb1 \
\cb3 To be reconciled with a per\uc0\u383 on.\cb1 \
\cb3 To be reconciled to a per\uc0\u383 on.\cb1 \
\cb3 To have a re\uc0\u383 emblance with one.\cb1 \
\cb3 To have a refemblance to one.\cb1 \
\cb3 To be prevailed with to do any thing.\cb1 \
\cb3 To be prevailed upon to do any thing.\cb1 \
\cb3 To bur\uc0\u383 t for laughing.\cb1 \
\cb3 To bur\uc0\u383 t with laughing.\cb1 \
\cb3 Addi\uc0\u383 on fays, to die for thir\u383 t; but of, or\cb1 \
\cb3 by thir\uc0\u383 t, \u383 eems to be preferable.\cb1 \
\cb3 To bring a note for one.\cb1 \
\cb3 To bring a note to one.\cb1 \
\cb3 The note, it may be \uc0\u383 aid, is carried for\cb1 \
\cb3 the per\uc0\u383 on it is \u383 ent by, and to the per\u383 on to\cb1 \
\cb3 whom it is directed.\cb1 \
\cb3 What's your will?\cb1 \
\cb3 What would you have? What do you want?\cb1 \
\cb3 or What was you \uc0\u383 aying?\cb1 \
\cb3 There is no colloquial idiom more common\cb1 \
\cb3 with Scotchmen, or more di\uc0\u383 agreeable\cb1 \
\cb3 to the Engli\uc0\u383 h, than What's your will?\cb1 \
\cb3 As I shall an\uc0\u383 wer.\cb1 \
\cb3 Upon my honour, I prote\uc0\u383 t, or declare.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Scotch phra\uc0\u383 e \u383 eems to be elliptic,\cb1 \
\cb3 for, as I \uc0\u383 hall an\u383 wer at the great day of\cb1 \
\cb3 Judgment.\cb1 \
\cb3 Let me be.\cb1 \
\cb3 Let me alone.\cb1 \
\cb3 I am hopeful that.\cb1 \
\cb3 I hope that.\cb1 \
\cb3 I furni\uc0\u383 hed goods to him.\cb1 \
\cb3 I furni\uc0\u383 hed him with goods.\cb1 \
\cb3 I have no fault to him.\cb1 \
\cb3 I have no fault with him, or, to find with\cb1 \
\cb3 him.\cb1 \
\cb3 I cannot think enough of \uc0\u383 uch a thing.\cb1 \
\cb3 I cannot help thinking of it; or, I am a\uc0\u383 toni\u383 hed,\cb1 \
\cb3 I cannot under\uc0\u383 tand it.\cb1 \
\cb3 One would readily imagine.\cb1 \
\cb3 One would naturally imagine.\cb1 \
\cb3 Readily properly means with expedition,\cb1 \
\cb3 or, with little hinderance or delay.\cb1 \
\cb3 He will \uc0\u383 ome day repent it.\cb1 \
\cb3 He will one day repent it.\cb1 \
\cb3 He is pre\uc0\u383 ently in London.\cb1 \
\cb3 He is now, or at pre\uc0\u383 ent, in London.\cb1 \
\cb3 He is colded.\cb1 \
\cb3 He has got a cold.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Scots al\uc0\u383 o \u383 ay, he has got the cold,\cb1 \
\cb3 for, he has got a cold.\cb1 \
\cb3 He is \uc0\u383 ome better.\cb1 \
\cb3 He is \uc0\u383 omewhat, or a little better.\cb1 \
\cb3 He is the better of \uc0\u383 uch a thing.\cb1 \
\cb3 He is the better for \uc0\u383 uch a thing.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. He was much the better of (for) his\cb1 \
\cb3 journey to Bath.\cb1 \
\cb3 He was in u\uc0\u383 e to do it.\cb1 \
\cb3 He u\uc0\u383 ed, or was in the habit of doing it.\cb1 \
\cb3 He is ten years old next May.\cb1 \
\cb3 He was nine years old la\uc0\u383 t May.\cb1 \
\cb3 The impropriety lies in a\uc0\u383 \u383 erting a circum\u383 tance\cb1 \
\cb3 which, by the death of the per\uc0\u383 on,\cb1 \
\cb3 may never happen, in\uc0\u383 tead of affirming\cb1 \
\cb3 what is certain, and has already happened.\cb1 \
\cb3 He is not fit to hold water to \uc0\u383 uch a one.\cb1 \
\cb3 He is not fit to be compared to \uc0\u383 uch a one.\cb1 \
\cb3 It is ill your common.\cb1 \
\cb3 It ill becomes you.\cb1 \
\cb3 Come, \uc0\u383 ay away.\cb1 \
\cb3 Come, begin.\cb1 \
\cb3 Have with you.\cb1 \
\cb3 I'll go with you.\cb1 \
\cb3 Shake\uc0\u383 peare makes u\u383 e of, have with you,\cb1 \
\cb3 in his Merry Wives of Windsor, Act II.\cb1 \
\cb3 Scene I.\cb1 \
\cb3 Have you any word to him.\cb1 \
\cb3 Have you any letter, or commands, to him.\cb1 \
\cb3 Word, for command or me\uc0\u383 \u383 age, is an old\cb1 \
\cb3 Shake\uc0\u383 pearian phra\u383 e, now exploded. It\cb1 \
\cb3 may be al\uc0\u383 o found in the Engli\u383 h Bible.\cb1 \
\cb3 I am the more impatient of pain, that I have\cb1 \
\cb3 hitherto enjoyed good health.\cb1 \
\cb3 I am the more impatient of pain, as, or becau\uc0\u383 e,\cb1 \
\cb3 I have hitherto enjoyed good\cb1 \
\cb3 health.\cb1 \
\cb3 This is, properly \uc0\u383 peaking, a Gallici\u383 m;\cb1 \
\cb3 another in\uc0\u383 tance of which occurs in the\cb1 \
\cb3 following phra\uc0\u383 e: "I expected to have \u383 een\cb1 \
\cb3 "you, as you \uc0\u383 aid you were to be in town;\cb1 \
\cb3 "and that (as, or becau\uc0\u383 e) you promi\u383 ed\cb1 \
\cb3 "to call on me."\cb1 \
\cb3 Though one \uc0\u383 hould meet with di\u383 appointments,\cb1 \
\cb3 he \uc0\u383 hould never abandon him\u383 elf to de\u383 pair.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Though one \uc0\u383 hould meet with di\u383 appointments,\cb1 \
\cb3 one \uc0\u383 hould never abandon one's\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 elf to de\u383 pair.\cb1 \
\cb3 It is ob\uc0\u383 erved by an ingenious critic\cb1 \
\cb3 (Remarks on the Engli\uc0\u383 h Language, printed\cb1 \
\cb3 Anno 1770, p. 23), that he or \uc0\u383 he can\cb1 \
\cb3 never properly be introduced as relatives to\cb1 \
\cb3 the indefinite noun one. The impropriety\cb1 \
\cb3 will appear particularly \uc0\u383 triking, in an example,\cb1 \
\cb3 where \uc0\u383 he is made u\u383 e of as the relative\cb1 \
\cb3 pronoun. "Though one \uc0\u383 hould be\cb1 \
\cb3 "admired for grace and beauty, \uc0\u383 he \u383 hould\cb1 \
\cb3 "never \uc0\u383 uffer her mind to be neglected."\cb1 \
\cb3 It is blooding.\cb1 \
\cb3 It bleeds.\cb1 \
\cb3 Mouly heels.\cb1 \
\cb3 Kibed, or \uc0\u383 ore heels.\cb1 \
\cb3 Chaped lips, or hands.\cb1 \
\cb3 Chopt lips, or broken into chinks.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 ore head.\cb1 \
\cb3 A head-ach, or pain in the head.\cb1 \
\cb3 Sore, implies excoriation, and cannot,\cb1 \
\cb3 therefore, with propriety be made u\uc0\u383 e of,\cb1 \
\cb3 if the head only aches.\cb1 \
\cb3 Sore eyes.\cb1 \
\cb3 Weak or tender eyes.\cb1 \
\cb3 Sore eyes, would imply their being \uc0\u383 o\cb1 \
\cb3 very bad and di\uc0\u383 agreeable to look at, that\cb1 \
\cb3 polite people rather make u\uc0\u383 e of the words\cb1 \
\cb3 weak, or tender. And adding clean, as,\cb1 \
\cb3 a clean \uc0\u383 hirt, when a plate, knife, handkerchief,\cb1 \
\cb3 &c. is called for, is reckoned indelicate,\cb1 \
\cb3 as it implies a dread, that a dirty\cb1 \
\cb3 plate, &c. might be brought. Per\uc0\u383 pire, is\cb1 \
\cb3 al\uc0\u383 o generally made u\u383 e of by polite people,\cb1 \
\cb3 for \uc0\u383 weat, and certainly expre\u383 \u383 es the \u383 ame\cb1 \
\cb3 idea in a more delicate manner.\cb1 \
\cb3 Swell'd cheek.\cb1 \
\cb3 Swell'd face.\cb1 \
\cb3 Swell'd cheek is more proper, but not \uc0\u383 o\cb1 \
\cb3 common in England.\cb1 \
\cb3 For my.\uc0\u383 hare.\cb1 \
\cb3 For my part.\cb1 \
\cb3 In place of\cb1 \
\cb3 In\uc0\u383 tead of.\cb1 \
\cb3 This is a Scotici\uc0\u383 m often fallen into.\cb1 \
\cb3 This much, and that much.\cb1 \
\cb3 Thus much, and \uc0\u383 o much.\cb1 \
\cb3 Split new.\cb1 \
\cb3 Quite new.\cb1 \
\cb3 Spick and \uc0\u383 pan new, is \u383 ometimes u\u383 ed\cb1 \
\cb3 in England.\cb1 \
\cb3 Our whole actions.\cb1 \
\cb3 All our actions,\cb1 \
\cb3 The whole way.\cb1 \
\cb3 All the way.\cb1 \
\cb3 The whole \uc0\u383 peeches.\cb1 \
\cb3 All the \uc0\u383 peeches.\cb1 \
\cb3 Yet the whole proceedings is good Engli\uc0\u383 h,\cb1 \
\cb3 on account of their forming one whole,\cb1 \
\cb3 the parts of which are naturally related to\cb1 \
\cb3 each other.\cb1 \
\cb3 A gone man.\cb1 \
\cb3 A dead, lo\uc0\u383 t, or ruined man.\cb1 \
\cb3 Perhaps gone, may not be without \uc0\u383 ome\cb1 \
\cb3 Engli\uc0\u383 h examples.\cb1 \
\cb3 Conviction on a thing.\cb1 \
\cb3 Conviction of a thing.\cb1 \
\cb3 Independent of.\cb1 \
\cb3 Independent on.\cb1 \
\cb3 As the verbal phra\uc0\u383 e is to depend on, independent\cb1 \
\cb3 of a common Scotici\uc0\u383 m, in Dr.\cb1 \
\cb3 John\uc0\u383 on's opinion, is an improper idiom.\cb1 \
\cb3 Here, al\uc0\u383 o, it may be proper to take\cb1 \
\cb3 notice of \uc0\u383 ome ob\u383 ervations made by that\cb1 \
\cb3 excellent grammarian Dr. Prie\uc0\u383 tley (vide\cb1 \
\cb3 his larger Grammar, p. 158.), regarding\cb1 \
\cb3 the prepo\uc0\u383 ition "of;" which Mr. Hume,\cb1 \
\cb3 and other Scotch, and indeed Engli\uc0\u383 h writers,\cb1 \
\cb3 are apt to u\uc0\u383 e as the French do their\cb1 \
\cb3 prepo\uc0\u383 tion "de," and con\u383 equently in a\cb1 \
\cb3 manner not at all \uc0\u383 uited to the genius of\cb1 \
\cb3 the Engli\uc0\u383 h language. Such Gallici\u383 ms\cb1 \
\cb3 would not he pardonable in a tran\uc0\u383 lator\cb1 \
\cb3 from the French, and arc \uc0\u383 urely very culpable\cb1 \
\cb3 in an original author. Examples from\cb1 \
\cb3 Hume. "Richlieu profited of [by] every\cb1 \
\cb3 "circum\uc0\u383 tance which the conjuncture af"forded."\cb1 \
\cb3 "The king of England pro"vided\cb1 \
\cb3 of [with] every \uc0\u383 upply." To\cb1 \
\cb3 provide a per\uc0\u383 on in, for with, food and\cb1 \
\cb3 raiment, is al\uc0\u383 o exceptionable. "It is\cb1 \
\cb3 "\uc0\u383 ituation, which decides of [concerning]\cb1 \
\cb3 "the fortunes of men." "Of [for] which\cb1 \
\cb3 he was extremely nece\uc0\u383 \u383 itous." "He\cb1 \
\cb3 "was eager of recommending it [to recom"mend\cb1 \
\cb3 it] to his fellow-citizens." "The\cb1 \
\cb3 "e\uc0\u383 teem which Philip had conceived of\cb1 \
\cb3 "[for] the amba\uc0\u383 \u383 ador." "An indem"nity\cb1 \
\cb3 of [for] pa\uc0\u383 t offences." "Youth\cb1 \
\cb3 "wandering in foreign countries, with as\cb1 \
\cb3 "little re\uc0\u383 pect of [for] others, as prudence\cb1 \
\cb3 "of their own." Other examples. "You\cb1 \
\cb3 "know the e\uc0\u383 teem I have of [for] this\cb1 \
\cb3 "philo\uc0\u383 ophy." "The good lady was\cb1 \
\cb3 "careful of \uc0\u383 erving me of [with] every\cb1 \
\cb3 "thing." "It might, perhaps, have given\cb1 \
\cb3 "me a greater ta\uc0\u383 te of [for] its antiqui"ties."\cb1 \
\cb3 A ta\uc0\u383 te of a thing, implies actual\cb1 \
\cb3 enjoyment; a ta\uc0\u383 te for it, only \u383 ignifies\cb1 \
\cb3 a capacity of enjoying.\cb1 \
\cb3 Dr. Prie\uc0\u383 tley al\u383 o ob\u383 erves (p. 166), that\cb1 \
\cb3 though we \uc0\u383 ay to depend on, or to depend\cb1 \
\cb3 upon a thing, to promi\uc0\u383 e upon a thing is improper.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. "This effect we could not be"fore-hand\cb1 \
\cb3 promi\uc0\u383 e upon," for "we could\cb1 \
\cb3 "not before-hand promi\uc0\u383 e our\u383 elves."\cb1 \
\cb3 A man who writes.\cb1 \
\cb3 A man who has written.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. Mr. Hume, who writes [has written]\cb1 \
\cb3 the Hi\uc0\u383 tory of England. Yet it may\cb1 \
\cb3 be \uc0\u383 aid, with propriety, \u383 uch a one writes\cb1 \
\cb3 the London Gazette, or the Annual Regi\uc0\u383 ter,\cb1 \
\cb3 becau\uc0\u383 e they are unfini\u383 hed works, and\cb1 \
\cb3 con\uc0\u383 tantly going on.\cb1 \
\cb3 A good hand of writ.\cb1 \
\cb3 A good hand-writing.\cb1 \
\cb3 A good hand of writ, is a very common\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotici\uc0\u383 m, which ought to be mo\u383 t carefully\cb1 \
\cb3 avoided.\cb1 \
\cb3 Such a thing has been.\cb1 \
\cb3 Such a thing mu\uc0\u383 t have been.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. Wallace has been [mu\uc0\u383 t have been]\cb1 \
\cb3 a \uc0\u383 trong, as well as brave man, or he could\cb1 \
\cb3 not have done what he did.\cb1 \
\cb3 This hero was not more con\uc0\u383 picuous for\cb1 \
\cb3 his valour, than for his love of liberty.\cb1 \
\cb3 The following rhymes, more remarkable\cb1 \
\cb3 at the \uc0\u383 ame time for their \u383 pirit, than their\cb1 \
\cb3 beauty, it is \uc0\u383 aid, he u\u383 ed often to repeat, to\cb1 \
\cb3 encourage his followers:\cb1 \
\cb3 "Dico tibi verum, libertas optima rerum,\cb1 \
\cb3 "Nunquam \uc0\u383 ervili, \u383 ub nictu vivito fili."\cb1 \
\cb3 Abundance of \uc0\u383 uch a thing.\cb1 \
\cb3 A great deal of \uc0\u383 uch a thing.\cb1 \
\cb3 In Scotland, abundance is made u\uc0\u383 e of for\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 ufficient, or enough; whereas in England it\cb1 \
\cb3 means plenty, or exuberance.\cb1 \
\cb3 A neafful and hantle of any thing.\cb1 \
\cb3 A handful, or \uc0\u383 mall quantity of any thing.\cb1 \
\cb3 Neafful comes from neif, or neaf, a word\cb1 \
\cb3 u\uc0\u383 ed by Shake\u383 pear for fi\u383 t. Hantle is a corruption\cb1 \
\cb3 of handful. Lock, al\uc0\u383 o, Ex. "a lock of\cb1 \
\cb3 "\uc0\u383 heep," \u383 eems to be corrupted from flock.\cb1 \
\cb3 This day eight days.\cb1 \
\cb3 This day \uc0\u383 e'nnight.\cb1 \
\cb3 The ancient Germans, we are informed\cb1 \
\cb3 by Tacitus, counted their time by the number\cb1 \
\cb3 of nights, and not of days; and the\cb1 \
\cb3 practice, except among the French and\cb1 \
\cb3 Scots, has always been general among\cb1 \
\cb3 northern nations; probably in con\uc0\u383 equence\cb1 \
\cb3 of the \uc0\u383 hortne\u383 s of their days in the winter\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 ea\u383 on, compared with the greater length\cb1 \
\cb3 and duration of the night. How the Scots\cb1 \
\cb3 came to be an exception, can only be accounted\cb1 \
\cb3 for by their connection with France,\cb1 \
\cb3 and their imitation of the Gallic idiom,\cb1 \
\cb3 "huit jours."\cb1 \
\cb3 The learned Bayle, in his di\uc0\u383 \u383 ertation concerning\cb1 \
\cb3 the \uc0\u383 pace of time called day, annexed\cb1 \
\cb3 to the la\uc0\u383 t volume of his Critical\cb1 \
\cb3 Dictionary, \'a7 2, has thrown together \uc0\u383 everal\cb1 \
\cb3 ob\uc0\u383 ervations upon this \u383 ubject. He\cb1 \
\cb3 affirms, that in \uc0\u383 ome places even in France,\cb1 \
\cb3 they \uc0\u383 ay anuict [to-night] for aujourd'-\cb1 \
\cb3 huy [to-day]; and that in Germany, in\uc0\u383 tead\cb1 \
\cb3 of \uc0\u383 aying St. John's day, and St.\cb1 \
\cb3 Martin's day, they \uc0\u383 ay St. John's night,\cb1 \
\cb3 and St. Martin's night. They mu\uc0\u383 t avoid,\cb1 \
\cb3 therefore, \uc0\u383 uch \u383 trange anomalies as this\cb1 \
\cb3 day \uc0\u383 e'nnight, and this day fortnight.\cb1 \
\cb3 This day \uc0\u383 e'nnight, and this day fortnight,\cb1 \
\cb3 are certainly odd phra\uc0\u383 es, and, \u383 trictly\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 peaking, improper. But, as the Scots\cb1 \
\cb3 make u\uc0\u383 e of this day fortnight, and not of\cb1 \
\cb3 this day fifteen days, as the French do of\cb1 \
\cb3 quinze jours, as well as huit jours, it is incongruous\cb1 \
\cb3 not to adopt the one phra\uc0\u383 e as\cb1 \
\cb3 well as the other.\cb1 \
\cb3 Tue\uc0\u383 day come \u383 e'nnight, Tue\u383 day was fe'nnight,\cb1 \
\cb3 &c.\cb1 \
\cb3 Tue\uc0\u383 day \u383 e'nnight.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Engli\uc0\u383 h \u383 uppo\u383 e they can under\u383 tand\cb1 \
\cb3 from the re\uc0\u383 t of the \u383 entence, whether time\cb1 \
\cb3 pa\uc0\u383 t, or time to come, is meant; and the\cb1 \
\cb3 Scots may pay them\uc0\u383 elves the compliment\cb1 \
\cb3 of believing it is in their power to do the\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 ame.\cb1 \
\cb3 Once in the two days.\cb1 \
\cb3 Every other day.\cb1 \
\cb3 Every other day, implies that one day\cb1 \
\cb3 intervenes between the other; whereas\cb1 \
\cb3 once in the two days, does not mean alternately,\cb1 \
\cb3 and leaves it uncertain, whether one\cb1 \
\cb3 day intervenes or two.\cb1 \
\cb3 Once in the week, or year.\cb1 \
\cb3 Once a week, or year.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. I ride out once in the [a] week. The,\cb1 \
\cb3 only denotes one particular week. Whereas\cb1 \
\cb3 the article a, has an indefinite \uc0\u383 ignification,\cb1 \
\cb3 and \uc0\u383 tands for any, or every.\cb1 \
\cb3 Half \uc0\u383 ix o'clock, &c.\cb1 \
\cb3 Half an hour pa\uc0\u383 t five, or, half an hour to\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 ix o'clock.\cb1 \
\cb3 Yet this ellip\uc0\u383 is, as Mr. Elphin\u383 ton ob\u383 erves,\cb1 \
\cb3 is almo\uc0\u383 t as ea\u383 ily \u383 upplied, as in\cb1 \
\cb3 the Engli\uc0\u383 h phra\u383 e of half after five, for,\cb1 \
\cb3 half an hour after five, &c.\cb1 \
\cb3 The fir\uc0\u383 t of a month or year.\cb1 \
\cb3 The beginning of a month or year.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. An event that happened on the \uc0\u383 econd,\cb1 \
\cb3 or third of January, according to the\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotch dialect, happened in the fir\uc0\u383 t of the\cb1 \
\cb3 month, and the fir\uc0\u383 t of the year.\cb1 \
\cb3 The morrow's morning.\cb1 \
\cb3 To-morrow morning.\cb1 \
\cb3 Sunday's morning.\cb1 \
\cb3 Sunday morning.\cb1 \
\cb3 Tomorrow forenoon.\cb1 \
\cb3 (U\uc0\u383 ually in England)\cb1 \
\cb3 Tomorrow morning.\cb1 \
\cb3 The morn's night.\cb1 \
\cb3 Tomorrow night.\cb1 \
\cb3 Morn, \uc0\u383 ays Dr. John\u383 on, is not u\u383 ed but\cb1 \
\cb3 by the poets, at lea\uc0\u383 t in England.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ye\uc0\u383 ternight.\cb1 \
\cb3 La\uc0\u383 t night.\cb1 \
\cb3 But the Engli\uc0\u383 h \u383 ay, ye\u383 terday, and not\cb1 \
\cb3 la\uc0\u383 t day, as the Scots do. Ex. I \u383 aw him\cb1 \
\cb3 the la\uc0\u383 t day (for ye\u383 terday, or the other\cb1 \
\cb3 day) in town.\cb1 \
\cb3 The \uc0\u383 trein, or ye\u383 trein\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Ye\uc0\u383 terday evening.\cb1 \
\cb3 Strein, \uc0\u383 eems to be a corruption of the\cb1 \
\cb3 Latin he\uc0\u383 ternus; and ye\u383 trein, of ye\u383 ter\cb1 \
\cb3 even\cb1 \
\cb3 La\uc0\u383 t harve\u383 t.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 La\uc0\u383 t autumn.\cb1 \
\cb3 The third \uc0\u383 ea\u383 on of the year, is almo\u383 t\cb1 \
\cb3 univer\uc0\u383 ally called harve\u383 t, in\u383 tead of autumn,\cb1 \
\cb3 in Scotland.\cb1 \
\cb3 Fre\uc0\u383 h weather.\cb1 \
\cb3 Open weather.\cb1 \
\cb3 Coar\uc0\u383 e weather.\cb1 \
\cb3 Rough, or \uc0\u383 tormy weather.\cb1 \
\cb3 The length of \uc0\u383 uch a place.\cb1 \
\cb3 As far as \uc0\u383 uch a place.\cb1 \
\cb3 Length, for di\uc0\u383 tance, is made u\u383 e of by\cb1 \
\cb3 Clarendon, but not by more modern authors.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 The knock \uc0\u383 trikes.\cb1 \
\cb3 The clock \uc0\u383 trikes.\cb1 \
\cb3 Clocks are called knocks, in \uc0\u383 ome parts of\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotland, from the noi\uc0\u383 e they make.\cb1 \
\cb3 The clock is behind.\cb1 \
\cb3 The clock is \uc0\u383 low, or goes \u383 low.\cb1 \
\cb3 Time about.\cb1 \
\cb3 Alternately.\cb1 \
\cb3 A few days thereafter.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 A few days after.\cb1 \
\cb3 Thereafter, for after, is a common Scotici\uc0\u383 m.\cb1 \
\cb3 It properly means accordingly, or\cb1 \
\cb3 according to, and not after that time, or\cb1 \
\cb3 that period.\cb1 \
\cb3 The plight of the \uc0\u383 ea\u383 on (old Engli\u383 h, for)\cb1 \
\cb3 The height of the \uc0\u383 ea\u383 on.\cb1 \
\cb3 When every thing is in good ca\uc0\u383 e, or plight.\cb1 \
\cb3 He is twenty years, or thereby.\cb1 \
\cb3 Or thereabout.\cb1 \
\cb3 Thereby, is properly, by means of that,\cb1 \
\cb3 and not about that, or near that.\cb1 \
\cb3 A tour of vi\uc0\u383 its.\cb1 \
\cb3 A round, or number or vi\uc0\u383 its.\cb1 \
\cb3 A great many company.\cb1 \
\cb3 Much company, a great deal of company,\cb1 \
\cb3 or, a great many people.\cb1 \
\cb3 All our friends and acquaintances.\cb1 \
\cb3 All our friends and acquaintance.\cb1 \
\cb3 At lea\uc0\u383 t acquaintance is preferable.\cb1 \
\cb3 Be\uc0\u383 t man and be\u383 t maid\cb1 \
\cb3 Bride-man and bride-maid.\cb1 \
\cb3 Indeed the Scots and Engli\uc0\u383 h affix a different\cb1 \
\cb3 meaning to the word bride, which is,\cb1 \
\cb3 properly, one who has been lately married,\cb1 \
\cb3 and not one going to be married, according\cb1 \
\cb3 to the Scotch idiom. The former al\uc0\u383 o\cb1 \
\cb3 make u\uc0\u383 e of tocher, an Er\u383 e word, for\cb1 \
\cb3 dower, or portion; and jo, from joie, French,\cb1 \
\cb3 for \uc0\u383 weetheart.\cb1 \
\cb3 A fine flower.\cb1 \
\cb3 A fine no\uc0\u383 egay.\cb1 \
\cb3 A flower is only a fingle one; a bunch,\cb1 \
\cb3 or bouquet of flowers, is properly a no\uc0\u383 egay.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 A fine lad\cb1 \
\cb3 A very good kind of lad; or, a very good.\cb1 \
\cb3 young man.\cb1 \
\cb3 A fine girl.\cb1 \
\cb3 A good-natured, good kind of girl.\cb1 \
\cb3 In England, a fine girl, means not a\cb1 \
\cb3 good-natured, but a \uc0\u383 howy, and hand\u383 ome\cb1 \
\cb3 girl; and a fine lady, one who is nice in\cb1 \
\cb3 her dre\uc0\u383 s, and affected in her \u383 entiments\cb1 \
\cb3 and behaviour.\cb1 \
\cb3 A pretty man.\cb1 \
\cb3 A polite, \uc0\u383 en\u383 ible man.\cb1 \
\cb3 A pretty man, in England, is a de\uc0\u383 picable\cb1 \
\cb3 character, the words implying beauty of\cb1 \
\cb3 per\uc0\u383 on, with \u383 carcely any other accompli\u383 hment;\cb1 \
\cb3 but in Scotland, it is often u\uc0\u383 ed in\cb1 \
\cb3 the \uc0\u383 en\u383 e of graceful, beautiful with dignity,\cb1 \
\cb3 or well accompli\uc0\u383 hed\cb1 \
\cb3 A gentlemanny, man.\cb1 \
\cb3 A gentlemanlike, or gentlemanly man.\cb1 \
\cb3 A young man.\cb1 \
\cb3 A batchelor.\cb1 \
\cb3 In the Engli\uc0\u383 h ver\u383 ion of the Bible,\cb1 \
\cb3 young man is made u\uc0\u383 e of in the \u383 ame\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 en\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 An old wife.\cb1 \
\cb3 An old woman.\cb1 \
\cb3 None are wives but \uc0\u383 uch as are married,\cb1 \
\cb3 which old women \uc0\u383 ometimes are not.\cb1 \
\cb3 The London copy (of a book).\cb1 \
\cb3 The London edition.\cb1 \
\cb3 A good thing by-hand.\cb1 \
\cb3 A good thing over.\cb1 \
\cb3 Out of hand\cb1 \
\cb3 Immediately.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. He did \uc0\u383 uch a thing out of hand, for,\cb1 \
\cb3 he did it immediately. At the \uc0\u383 ame time,\cb1 \
\cb3 out of hand, may be found both in Spen\uc0\u383 er\cb1 \
\cb3 \\and Shake\uc0\u383 pear, and is \u383 till occa\u383 ionally u\u383 ed.\cb1 \
\cb3 Simply impo\uc0\u383 \u383 ible.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ab\uc0\u383 olutely impo\u383 \u383 ible\cb1 \
\cb3 Or then.\cb1 \
\cb3 Before then.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. I \uc0\u383 hould be glad to \u383 ee you or (before)\cb1 \
\cb3 then.\cb1 \
\cb3 As \uc0\u383 uch a thing.\cb1 \
\cb3 Than \uc0\u383 uch a thing.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. I love claret better as (than) port,\cb1 \
\cb3 and \uc0\u383 till better as (than) white-wine.\cb1 \
\cb3 Sometimes the Scotch and Engli\uc0\u383 h dialects\cb1 \
\cb3 only differ in orthography, of which the\cb1 \
\cb3 following words are in\uc0\u383 tances.\cb1 \
\cb3 Admirality.\cb1 \
\cb3 Admiralty.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Scots indeed frequently pronounce\cb1 \
\cb3 admiralty, admirality; deriving that word\cb1 \
\cb3 from the Latin admiralitas, and not as the\cb1 \
\cb3 Engli\uc0\u383 h do, from the French ammiralt\'e9.\cb1 \
\cb3 Pin, by the vulgar, al\uc0\u383 o, is generally called\cb1 \
\cb3 prin, another \uc0\u383 ingular corruption in the\cb1 \
\cb3 pronunciation, or the orthography. And\cb1 \
\cb3 in \uc0\u383 ome parts of Scotland, particularly in\cb1 \
\cb3 the north, humble, is very improperly pronounced\cb1 \
\cb3 humeble, as if the u had the \uc0\u383 ame\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 ound in that word that it has in humility.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Bankier.\cb1 \
\cb3 Banker.\cb1 \
\cb3 Connection.\cb1 \
\cb3 Connexion.\cb1 \
\cb3 Yet the Englifh univerfally write collection,\cb1 \
\cb3 and reflection; and \uc0\u383 ome authors have\cb1 \
\cb3 even given connection the preference.\cb1 \
\cb3 Impo\uc0\u383 tures.\cb1 \
\cb3 Impo\uc0\u383 tors.\cb1 \
\cb3 Sirname, (u\uc0\u383 ually)\cb1 \
\cb3 Surname.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ordonance, or ordinance,\cb1 \
\cb3 Ordnance.\cb1 \
\cb3 Eneugh.\cb1 \
\cb3 Enough.\cb1 \
\cb3 Oeconomy, (now commonly written)\cb1 \
\cb3 Economy.\cb1 \
\cb3 Compleat.\cb1 \
\cb3 Complete.\cb1 \
\cb3 De\uc0\u383 cendents.\cb1 \
\cb3 De\uc0\u383 cendants.\cb1 \
\cb3 De\uc0\u383 cendants is preferable, becau\u383 e it is\cb1 \
\cb3 proper to make a di\uc0\u383 tinction between the\cb1 \
\cb3 noun and the adjective. Yet the Engli\uc0\u383 h\cb1 \
\cb3 write independents, and not independants,\cb1 \
\cb3 which they ought to do by analogy.\cb1 \
\cb3 De\uc0\u383 ireable and re\u383 olveable.\cb1 \
\cb3 De\uc0\u383 irable and re\u383 olvable.\cb1 \
\cb3 Incom\uc0\u383 ortable.\cb1 \
\cb3 Uncomfortable.\cb1 \
\cb3 Likeways.\cb1 \
\cb3 Likewi\uc0\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 Otherways.\cb1 \
\cb3 Otherwi\uc0\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 The two la\uc0\u383 t being the mo\u383 t common,\cb1 \
\cb3 ought to be particularly guarded again\uc0\u383 t.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Scots are al\uc0\u383 o apt to err in \u383 pelling\cb1 \
\cb3 the plural of words ending in y, in general\cb1 \
\cb3 ys, in\uc0\u383 tead of ies. Ex. familys, for families;\cb1 \
\cb3 extremitys, for extremities, &c.\cb1 \
\cb3 Sometimes the Scots u\uc0\u383 e the singular for\cb1 \
\cb3 the plural, the plural for the \uc0\u383 ingular, and\cb1 \
\cb3 a noun for an adjective.\cb1 \
\cb3 You was\cb1 \
\cb3 You were.\cb1 \
\cb3 This is an impropriety which even Mr.\cb1 \
\cb3 Hume was guilty of. You, is confe\uc0\u383 \u383 edly\cb1 \
\cb3 plural; and therefore the verb, agreeably to\cb1 \
\cb3 the analogy of all languages, ought to be\cb1 \
\cb3 in the plural al\uc0\u383 o. Indeed, if you, were a\cb1 \
\cb3 pronoun \uc0\u383 ingular, you wa\u383 t, and not you\cb1 \
\cb3 was, would be the proper idiom.\cb1 \
\cb3 Three \uc0\u383 heet of paper.\cb1 \
\cb3 Three \uc0\u383 heets of paper.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 tair\cb1 \
\cb3 Stairs, or a pair of \uc0\u383 tairs.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 tair, in modern Engli\u383 h, is not the\cb1 \
\cb3 whole order of the \uc0\u383 teps, but only one \u383 tep,\cb1 \
\cb3 or one \uc0\u383 mall divi\u383 ion of the \u383 tairs. There\cb1 \
\cb3 is al\uc0\u383 o a di\u383 tinction between \u383 tairs and \u383 teps.\cb1 \
\cb3 Stairs are tho\uc0\u383 e within the hou\u383 e; \u383 teps\cb1 \
\cb3 tho\uc0\u383 e without.\cb1 \
\cb3 Mean.\cb1 \
\cb3 Means.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. It will be the mean (the means) of\cb1 \
\cb3 procuring \uc0\u383 uch a thing. But care \u383 hould be\cb1 \
\cb3 taken, as Dr. John\uc0\u383 on well remarks, not\cb1 \
\cb3 to make u\uc0\u383 e of means with a pronoun \u383 ingular;\cb1 \
\cb3 an error which is often fallen into,\cb1 \
\cb3 even by good writers. Ex. He carried it\cb1 \
\cb3 through by the\uc0\u383 e (and not by that) means.\cb1 \
\cb3 Hence Mr. Hume has ungrammatically \uc0\u383 aid\cb1 \
\cb3 (Hi\uc0\u383 t. Vol. VIII, p. 65.), le\u383 t this means,\cb1 \
\cb3 for, the\uc0\u383 e means, \u383 hould fail\cb1 \
\cb3 Severals.\cb1 \
\cb3 Several.\cb1 \
\cb3 This word has no plural termination;\cb1 \
\cb3 but though \uc0\u383 everals is improper, others\cb1 \
\cb3 may be u\uc0\u383 ed.\cb1 \
\cb3 Two weeks.\cb1 \
\cb3 A fortnight.\cb1 \
\cb3 Two alternatives.\cb1 \
\cb3 One alternative.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. As you may either marry, or live\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 ingle, you have two very good alternatives,\cb1 \
\cb3 for, one very good alternative. Two alternatives,\cb1 \
\cb3 would mean the choice of four\cb1 \
\cb3 things.\cb1 \
\cb3 No objections.\cb1 \
\cb3 No objection.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. "I have no objections (objection) to\cb1 \
\cb3 "ride out with you to-day."\cb1 \
\cb3 Your favours.\cb1 \
\cb3 Your favour.\cb1 \
\cb3 But I received your favours of the fifth\cb1 \
\cb3 and tenth current, &c. is proper. In favours\cb1 \
\cb3 of, for, in favour of, is however exceptionable.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 John and Charles Thom\uc0\u383 ons; and the like.\cb1 \
\cb3 John and Charles Thom\uc0\u383 on.\cb1 \
\cb3 The broth are very good.\cb1 \
\cb3 The broth is very good.\cb1 \
\cb3 It is a common error in Scotland to \uc0\u383 uppo\u383 e\cb1 \
\cb3 that broth, cabbage, \uc0\u383 pinnage, and pottage,\cb1 \
\cb3 or porridge, are in the plural number.\cb1 \
\cb3 N. B. He has got his broth, is a common\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotch phra\uc0\u383 e, for, he is tip\u383 y.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Aberdeen's Journal.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Aberdeen Journal.\cb1 \
\cb3 Aberdeen is here made u\uc0\u383 e of (\u383 ays Dr.\cb1 \
\cb3 Beattie) as an adjective, and con\uc0\u383 equently\cb1 \
\cb3 the addition of 's, denoting the genitive\cb1 \
\cb3 ca\uc0\u383 e, is highly ungrammatical; for Engli\u383 h\cb1 \
\cb3 adjectives have no ca\uc0\u383 e, gender, or number.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Scotch and Engli\uc0\u383 h dialects, al\u383 o differ\cb1 \
\cb3 in arrangement.\cb1 \
\cb3 Give me it, \uc0\u383 how me it.\cb1 \
\cb3 Give it me, \uc0\u383 how it me.\cb1 \
\cb3 Any body el\uc0\u383 e's.\cb1 \
\cb3 Any body's el\uc0\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 A pretty enough girl\cb1 \
\cb3 A pretty girl enough.\cb1 \
\cb3 Dr. Prie\uc0\u383 tley ob\u383 erves, that an adjective\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 hould not be separated from its \u383 ub\u383 tantive,\cb1 \
\cb3 even by words which modify its\cb1 \
\cb3 meaning, and make but one \uc0\u383 en\u383 e with it.\cb1 \
\cb3 Hence he objects to the following phra\uc0\u383 es\cb1 \
\cb3 of Mr. Humes: A large enough number\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 urely, for a number large enough. The\cb1 \
\cb3 lower \uc0\u383 ort of people are good enough judges\cb1 \
\cb3 of one not very di\uc0\u383 tant from them, for are\cb1 \
\cb3 judges good enough. Ten thou\uc0\u383 and is a large\cb1 \
\cb3 enough ba\uc0\u383 e, for a ba\u383 e large enough.\cb1 \
\cb3 A picktooth.\cb1 \
\cb3 A toothpick.\cb1 \
\cb3 A picktooth-ca\uc0\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 .\cb1 \
\cb3 A toothpick-ca\uc0\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 Picktooth, and picktooth-ca\uc0\u383 e, may be\cb1 \
\cb3 found even in Swift, but are now accounted\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotici\uc0\u383 ms. An Engli\u383 h wag being a\u383 ked\cb1 \
\cb3 why he gave toothpick the preference,\cb1 \
\cb3 replied, "That, for his part, he put tooth\cb1 \
\cb3 "fir\uc0\u383 t, becaufe one mu\u383 t have teeth, be"fore\cb1 \
\cb3 it was nece\uc0\u383 \u383 ary to pick them."\cb1 \
\cb3 Tomkins Le\uc0\u383 lie; and the like.\cb1 \
\cb3 Le\uc0\u383 lie Tomkins.\cb1 \
\cb3 Double \uc0\u383 urnames are placed differently\cb1 \
\cb3 by the Scots and Engli\uc0\u383 h. For in England,\cb1 \
\cb3 the name a per\uc0\u383 on wi\u383 hes to be particularly\cb1 \
\cb3 known by, is put la\uc0\u383 t, and in Scotland fir\u383 t.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. A per\uc0\u383 on that has two names, \u383 uppo\u383 e\cb1 \
\cb3 Le\uc0\u383 lie and Tomkins, and wi\u383 hes to be called\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Mr. Tomkins, in Scotland mu\uc0\u383 t call him\u383 elf\cb1 \
\cb3 Tomkins Le\uc0\u383 lie, and in England, Le\u383 lie Tomkins\cb1 \
\
\cb3 There are other examples of improper arrangement,\cb1 \
\cb3 which, though not the monopoly\cb1 \
\cb3 of Scotland, yet ought to be avoided.\cb1 \
\cb3 I better had.\cb1 \
\cb3 I had better.\cb1 \
\cb3 As ever I \uc0\u383 aw.\cb1 \
\cb3 As I ever \uc0\u383 aw.\cb1 \
\cb3 To which may be added, fork and knife,\cb1 \
\cb3 for knife and fork; milk and bread, for\cb1 \
\cb3 bread and milk; butter and bread, for bread\cb1 \
\cb3 and butter; pepper and vinegar, for vinegar\cb1 \
\cb3 and pepper; paper, pen, and ink, for pent\cb1 \
\cb3 ink, and paper. The ear is the be\uc0\u383 t dictator\cb1 \
\cb3 of arrangement, and the Engli\uc0\u383 h, in general,\cb1 \
\cb3 a\uc0\u383 \u383 ign the fir\u383 t place to the mo\u383 t important\cb1 \
\cb3 article, and the la\uc0\u383 t to the longe\u383 t\cb1 \
\cb3 word.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Scots are al\uc0\u383 o fond of expletives, and\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 ometimes of ellip\u383 es.\cb1 \
\cb3 Say the grace.\cb1 \
\cb3 Say grace.\cb1 \
\cb3 The \uc0\u383 eventeen hundred and forty--five.\cb1 \
\cb3 Seventeen hundred and forty-five.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. Such a thing happened in the 1745,\cb1 \
\cb3 is a phra\uc0\u383 e by which a Scotchman might\cb1 \
\cb3 be di\uc0\u383 tingui\u383 hed. The forty-five, for \u383 eventeen\cb1 \
\cb3 hundred and forty-five, is an ellip\uc0\u383 e peculiar\cb1 \
\cb3 to Scotland.\cb1 \
\cb3 Go to the \uc0\u383 chool, or church.\cb1 \
\cb3 Go to \uc0\u383 chool, or church.\cb1 \
\cb3 Notwith\uc0\u383 tanding of that.\cb1 \
\cb3 Notwith\uc0\u383 tanding that.\cb1 \
\cb3 Mr. Hume is often guilty of this impropriety.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. "Notwith\uc0\u383 tanding of this un"lucky\cb1 \
\cb3 example." "Notwith\uc0\u383 tanding of the\cb1 \
\cb3 "numerous panegyrics on the ancient Eng"li\uc0\u383 h\cb1 \
\cb3 liberty." In \uc0\u383 uch ca\u383 es, the prepo\u383 ition\cb1 \
\cb3 of is \uc0\u383 urely \u383 uperfluous, and ought to\cb1 \
\cb3 have been avoided.\cb1 \
\cb3 A little more of bread.\cb1 \
\cb3 A little more bread.\cb1 \
\cb3 Will you \uc0\u383 tay to dinner, tea, &c.\cb1 \
\cb3 Will you \uc0\u383 tay dinner.\cb1 \
\cb3 Will you \uc0\u383 tay to dine with us, with propriety\cb1 \
\cb3 may be u\uc0\u383 ed.\cb1 \
\cb3 To be a mi\uc0\u383 \u383 ing.\cb1 \
\cb3 To be mi\uc0\u383 \u383 ing.\cb1 \
\cb3 I love for to do good.\cb1 \
\cb3 I love to do good.\cb1 \
\cb3 For to, at the \uc0\u383 ame time, is in the Eng1i\u383 h\cb1 \
\cb3 ver\uc0\u383 ion of the Bible.\cb1 \
\cb3 I gave him a pen for till write with.\cb1 \
\cb3 I gave him a pen to write with.\cb1 \
\cb3 This idiom has now become vulgar,\cb1 \
\cb3 even in Scotland.\cb1 \
\cb3 I was not \uc0\u383 o well la\u383 t winter.\cb1 \
\cb3 I was not well la\uc0\u383 t winter.\cb1 \
\cb3 It is improper to \uc0\u383 ay \u383 o well, unle\u383 s as\cb1 \
\cb3 follows: Ex. I was not \uc0\u383 o well la\u383 t winter,\cb1 \
\cb3 as I was the winter before.\cb1 \
\cb3 The ellip\uc0\u383 es are equally numerous; for\cb1 \
\cb3 in\uc0\u383 tance,\cb1 \
\cb3 Is he in?\cb1 \
\cb3 Is he within?\cb1 \
\cb3 Goat milk and whey.\cb1 \
\cb3 Goat's milk and whey.\cb1 \
\cb3 A bit bread, paper, &c.\cb1 \
\cb3 A bit of bread, paper, &\cb1 \
\cb3 A ju\uc0\u383 tice of peace.\cb1 \
\cb3 A ju\uc0\u383 tice of the peace.\cb1 \
\cb3 In writing, it is always a ju\uc0\u383 tice of the\cb1 \
\cb3 peace.\cb1 \
\cb3 The penult.\cb1 \
\cb3 The penultima.\cb1 \
\cb3 Herodote.\cb1 \
\cb3 Herodotus.\cb1 \
\cb3 At wor\uc0\u383 t. [Hume's Hi\u383 t.Vol. vi. p. 435.]\cb1 \
\cb3 At the wor\uc0\u383 t.\cb1 \
\cb3 To go out walking.\cb1 \
\cb3 To go out a walking.\cb1 \
\cb3 To be out riding.\cb1 \
\cb3 To be out a riding.\cb1 \
\cb3 He wrote me.\cb1 \
\cb3 He wrote to me, or he wrote me a letter.\cb1 \
\cb3 'Tis a week \uc0\u383 ince he left this.\cb1 \
\cb3 'Tis a week \uc0\u383 ince he left this place.\cb1 \
\cb3 I \uc0\u383 hall quarrel you.\cb1 \
\cb3 I \uc0\u383 hall quarrel with you.\cb1 \
\cb3 There are al\uc0\u383 o many fal\u383 e formations in the\cb1 \
\cb3 Scottish dialect, which ought to be avoided;\cb1 \
\cb3 as\cb1 \
\cb3 Tremenduous.\cb1 \
\cb3 Tremendous.\cb1 \
\cb3 Momentuous, mon\uc0\u383 truous.\cb1 \
\cb3 Momentous, mon\uc0\u383 trous,\cb1 \
\cb3 Keept, \uc0\u383 weept.\cb1 \
\cb3 Kept, \uc0\u383 wept.\cb1 \
\cb3 Keeped.\cb1 \
\cb3 Kept.\cb1 \
\cb3 Pled.\cb1 \
\cb3 Pleaded.\cb1 \
\cb3 Catched.\cb1 \
\cb3 Caught.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. He catched (caught) cold. This is\cb1 \
\cb3 a. very common Scotici\uc0\u383 m, formerly current\cb1 \
\cb3 in England.\cb1 \
\cb3 Teach't.\cb1 \
\cb3 Taught.\cb1 \
\cb3 Proven, improven, &c.\cb1 \
\cb3 Proved, improved, &c.\cb1 \
\cb3 Run, drunk.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ran, drank.\cb1 \
\cb3 At lea\uc0\u383 t, he ran a great way, and he\cb1 \
\cb3 drank a great deal, is preferable.\cb1 \
\cb3 Hings.\cb1 \
\cb3 Hangs.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. Which in \uc0\u383 ome cave, or vaulted cavern hings,\cb1 \
\cb3 Woven thick with complicated feet and wings,\cb1 \
\cb3 Epigoniad, Book ix. p. 285.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Scots are al\uc0\u383 o apt to mutilate the termination\cb1 \
\cb3 of time pa\uc0\u383 t, in verbs ending with\cb1 \
\cb3 t, as breakfa\uc0\u383 t; or te, as educate. For\cb1 \
\cb3 example;\cb1 \
\cb3 Have you breakfa\uc0\u383 t.\cb1 \
\cb3 Have you breakfa\uc0\u383 ted.\cb1 \
\cb3 Are you acquaint with him.\cb1 \
\cb3 Are you acquainted with him.\cb1 \
\cb3 The hou\uc0\u383 e is well \u383 ituate.\cb1 \
\cb3 The hou\uc0\u383 e is well \u383 ituated.\cb1 \
\cb3 Where was he educate?\cb1 \
\cb3 Where was he educated ?\cb1 \
\cb3 The enemy was defeat.\cb1 \
\cb3 The enemy was defeated.\cb1 \
\cb3 He dedicate his book.\cb1 \
\cb3 He dedicated his book,\cb1 \
\cb3 He communicate it.\cb1 \
\cb3 He communicated it.\cb1 \
\cb3 Yet, in the P\uc0\u383 alms, it is \u383 aid, they are\cb1 \
\cb3 confederate again\uc0\u383 t thee.\cb1 \
\cb3 But there is nothing that the inhabitants of\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotland are \uc0\u383 o apt to err in, as in the\cb1 \
\cb3 u\uc0\u383 e they make of \u383 hall and will, \u383 hould and\cb1 \
\cb3 would, there and tho\uc0\u383 e: at the \u383 ame time,\cb1 \
\cb3 it is ea\uc0\u383 ier to remark the difference, than\cb1 \
\cb3 to explain the principles on which it ought\cb1 \
\cb3 to be corrected.\cb1 \
\cb3 The principal error of the Scots, in their u\uc0\u383 e\cb1 \
\cb3 of \uc0\u383 hall and will, originates from \u383 uppo\u383 ing\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 hall, more emphatical and expre\u383 \u383 ive\cb1 \
\cb3 in the fir\uc0\u383 t per\u383 ons \u383 ingular and plural,\cb1 \
\cb3 than will; which, though it might be \uc0\u383 upported\cb1 \
\cb3 by \uc0\u383 ome examples from the old poets,\cb1 \
\cb3 yet is far from being the ca\uc0\u383 e in modern\cb1 \
\cb3 poetry, and far le\uc0\u383 s in modern pro\u383 e. For\cb1 \
\cb3 in\uc0\u383 tance,\cb1 \
\cb3 I will come, we will come \'97 denotes, I am\cb1 \
\cb3 determined to come, and implies a firm re\uc0\u383 olution,\cb1 \
\cb3 a promi\uc0\u383 e, or a threat.\cb1 \
\cb3 Thou wilt come, he will come, ye will\cb1 \
\cb3 come, they will come \'97 expre\uc0\u383 \u383 es futurity\cb1 \
\cb3 merely.\cb1 \
\cb3 I \uc0\u383 hall come, we \u383 hall come \'97 only foretels\cb1 \
\cb3 what may happen.\cb1 \
\cb3 Thou \uc0\u383 halt come, he \u383 hall come, ye \u383 hall\cb1 \
\cb3 come, they \uc0\u383 hall come. \'97 In the\u383 e per\u383 ons,\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 hall continues the emphatical \u383 en\u383 e of will,\cb1 \
\cb3 and implies a promi\uc0\u383 e, a threat, or a command.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 As an in\uc0\u383 tance of the different manner in\cb1 \
\cb3 which the Scots and Engli\uc0\u383 h u\u383 e \u383 hall and\cb1 \
\cb3 will, in the fir\uc0\u383 t per\u383 on \u383 ingular, a \u383 tory is\cb1 \
\cb3 told of a Scotchman, who having fallen\cb1 \
\cb3 into a river in England, had almo\uc0\u383 t peri\u383 hed\cb1 \
\cb3 in it, in con\uc0\u383 equence of his calling out,\cb1 \
\cb3 I will, for I \uc0\u383 hall be drowned; the \u383 pectators\cb1 \
\cb3 having for \uc0\u383 ome time he\u383 itated, whether\cb1 \
\cb3 they \uc0\u383 hould venture their own lives\cb1 \
\cb3 for the \uc0\u383 afety of one, who, as they were led\cb1 \
\cb3 to imagine, was determined to make away\cb1 \
\cb3 with him\uc0\u383 elf.\cb1 \
\cb3 Will I do this, or that, for \uc0\u383 hall I, is not\cb1 \
\cb3 unu\uc0\u383 ual in Scotland. "Will I help you to\cb1 \
\cb3 a bit of beef? &c." for example, is a\cb1 \
\cb3 common phra\uc0\u383 e at the tables of Scotchmen;\cb1 \
\cb3 and as it properly means am I willing to\cb1 \
\cb3 help you? and, con\uc0\u383 equently does not nece\u383 \u383 arily\cb1 \
\cb3 denote any inclination in the \uc0\u383 peaker,\cb1 \
\cb3 it is far from being \uc0\u383 uited to the ho\u383 pitable\cb1 \
\cb3 character of our countrymen. Will I buy\cb1 \
\cb3 a hor\uc0\u383 e? for \u383 hall I, is al\u383 o a very improper\cb1 \
\cb3 expre\uc0\u383 \u383 ion; for, if it means any thing\cb1 \
\cb3 at all, it would imply, "am I re\uc0\u383 olved to buy\cb1 \
\cb3 a hor\uc0\u383 e?" It may be ob\u383 erved, with Dr.\cb1 \
\cb3 Prie\uc0\u383 tley, when a que\u383 tion is asked, that\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 hall, in the fir\u383 t per\u383 on, is u\u383 ed in a \u383 en\u383 e\cb1 \
\cb3 different from both its other \uc0\u383 en\u383 es. For,\cb1 \
\cb3 Shall I write? for in\uc0\u383 tance, means, Is it\cb1 \
\cb3 your plea\uc0\u383 ure that I \u383 hould write? But will,\cb1 \
\cb3 in the \uc0\u383 econd per\u383 on, reverts to its other\cb1 \
\cb3 u\uc0\u383 ual \u383 en\u383 e; for, Will you write? means,\cb1 \
\cb3 Is it your intention to write or not?\cb1 \
\cb3 There is rea\uc0\u383 on to believe, \u383 ays Mr.\cb1 \
\cb3 Hume, that the Scotch was the old method\cb1 \
\cb3 of u\uc0\u383 ing \u383 hall and will; but that it\cb1 \
\cb3 was gradually altered, as the Engli\uc0\u383 h grew\cb1 \
\cb3 more polite. It became the courte\uc0\u383 y of\cb1 \
\cb3 England to make u\uc0\u383 e of will, when \u383 peaking\cb1 \
\cb3 to others, or of them, becau\uc0\u383 e that\cb1 \
\cb3 term implies volition only, even where the\cb1 \
\cb3 event mu\uc0\u383 t happen; and \u383 hall, when \u383 peaking\cb1 \
\cb3 of them\uc0\u383 elves, which implies con\u383 traint,\cb1 \
\cb3 though the event is the \uc0\u383 ubject of choice\cb1 \
\cb3 It is al\uc0\u383 o in the fir\u383 t per\u383 ons \u383 ingular and\cb1 \
\cb3 plural, that the Scots are mo\uc0\u383 t apt to err, in\cb1 \
\cb3 the u\uc0\u383 e they make of \u383 hould and would.\cb1 \
\cb3 I would, implies only an inclination in the\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 peaker. I \u383 hould, an obligation upon him,\cb1 \
\cb3 with or without inclination. In vain would\cb1 \
\cb3 we do \uc0\u383 uch a thing, means, in vain would\cb1 \
\cb3 we have the inclination to do it. In vain\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 hould we do \u383 uch a thing, implies, in vain\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 hould we carry it into execution. Mr. Hume\cb1 \
\cb3 ob\uc0\u383 erves, where a condition, and the con\u383 equcnce\cb1 \
\cb3 of that condition, is expre\uc0\u383 \u383 ed in a\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 entence, that the former, in the \u383 econd\cb1 \
\cb3 and third per\uc0\u383 ons, always requires \u383 hould,\cb1 \
\cb3 and the latter would. Ex. If he \uc0\u383 hould\cb1 \
\cb3 fall, he would break his leg.\cb1 \
\cb3 The\uc0\u383 e, is the plural of this, and tho\u383 e, of\cb1 \
\cb3 that; con\uc0\u383 equently the former expre\u383 \u383 es\cb1 \
\cb3 what is near and definite, and the latter,\cb1 \
\cb3 what is more indefinite and remote. The\cb1 \
\cb3 Scots principally err in u\uc0\u383 ing the\u383 e, as the\cb1 \
\cb3 plural of that. Ex. One of the\uc0\u383 e days, for\cb1 \
\cb3 one of the\uc0\u383 e days. Where a relative is to\cb1 \
\cb3 follow, and the \uc0\u383 ubject has not been mentioned\cb1 \
\cb3 before, the\uc0\u383 e is excluded, but either\cb1 \
\cb3 the, or tho\uc0\u383 e, may be made u\u383 e of. The,\cb1 \
\cb3 where the demon\uc0\u383 tration is general. Tho\u383 e,\cb1 \
\cb3 where it is particular, or \uc0\u383 pecific: as, the\cb1 \
\cb3 kingdoms, or, tho\uc0\u383 e kingdoms, which Alexander\cb1 \
\cb3 conquered, and the ob\uc0\u383 ervations, or\cb1 \
\cb3 tho\uc0\u383 e ob\u383 ervations which he made.\cb1 \
\cb3 CHAP. II.\cb1 \
\cb3 Words peculiar to the Scots, or, which they\cb1 \
\cb3 u\uc0\u383 e in a \u383 en\u383 e different from the Engli\u383 h\cb1 \
\cb3 THAT the Scots \uc0\u383 hould indulge a\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 trong partiality in favour of their\cb1 \
\cb3 own dialect, is the le\uc0\u383 s to be wondered at,\cb1 \
\cb3 when we con\uc0\u383 ider how many words are\cb1 \
\cb3 now condemned as Scotici\uc0\u383 ms, which were\cb1 \
\cb3 formerly admired for their \uc0\u383 trength and\cb1 \
\cb3 beauty, and may \uc0\u383 till be found in the\cb1 \
\cb3 writings of Chaucer, of Spen\uc0\u383 er, of Shake\u383 peare,\cb1 \
\cb3 and ether celebrated Engli\uc0\u383 h authors.\cb1 \
\cb3 Indeed, many words in the old\cb1 \
\cb3 Engli\uc0\u383 h or Scotti\u383 h dialects, are \u383 o emphatical\cb1 \
\cb3 and \uc0\u383 ignificant, that, as Ruddiman ob\u383 erves,\cb1 \
\cb3 it is difficult to find words in the\cb1 \
\cb3 modern Engli\uc0\u383 h capable of expre\u383 \u383 ing their\cb1 \
\cb3 full force, and genuine meaning. But\cb1 \
\cb3 what our language has lo\uc0\u383 t in \u383 trength, it\cb1 \
\cb3 has gained in elegance and correctne\uc0\u383 s.\cb1 \
\cb3 In the following Glo\uc0\u383 \u383 ary, as it may be\cb1 \
\cb3 called, it is propo\uc0\u383 ed to follow an alphabetical\cb1 \
\cb3 order, and to arrange the words under\cb1 \
\cb3 four general heads, namely, verbs,\cb1 \
\cb3 adjectives, nouns, and particles. With little\cb1 \
\cb3 difficulty it might have been extended to a\cb1 \
\cb3 much greater length: but I wi\uc0\u383 hed not to\cb1 \
\cb3 include the words which have grown ob\uc0\u383 olete\cb1 \
\cb3 among the Scots them\uc0\u383 elves, nor to\cb1 \
\cb3 trouble the reader with tedious ob\uc0\u383 ervations\cb1 \
\cb3 of an etymological nature. I have endeavoured,\cb1 \
\cb3 however, with the a\uc0\u383 \u383 i\u383 tance of\cb1 \
\cb3 Dr. John\uc0\u383 on, Mr. Ray, and that excellent\cb1 \
\cb3 glo\uc0\u383 \u383 ari\u383 t Ruddiman, to gratify the curio\u383 ity\cb1 \
\cb3 of tho\uc0\u383 e who may wi\u383 h to know from what\cb1 \
\cb3 language any particular word is \uc0\u383 uppo\u383 ed\cb1 \
\cb3 to be derived, or with which of the northern\cb1 \
\cb3 dialects it may be more immediately connected.\cb1 \
\cb3 For as the mo\uc0\u383 t learned of our\cb1 \
\cb3 Engli\uc0\u383 h Lexicographers has ob\u383 erved, the\cb1 \
\cb3 Dutch, the Belgick, and the German, like\cb1 \
\cb3 our language, are derived from the Teutonic,\cb1 \
\cb3 and are therefore to be accounted, not\cb1 \
\cb3 the parents, but the \uc0\u383 i\u383 ters of the English.\cb1 \
\cb3 VERBS.\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotch. To big [Saxon and I\uc0\u383 landic.]\cb1 \
\cb3 Engli\uc0\u383 h. To build.\cb1 \
\cb3 Biggins, is al\uc0\u383 o a Scotch word, for buildings.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 To birle.\cb1 \
\cb3 To drink cheerfully, to carou\uc0\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 To chap (as to chap at a door) [chopper,\cb1 \
\cb3 Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 To knock, or \uc0\u383 trike.\cb1 \
\cb3 To choi\uc0\u383 e [choi\u383 ir, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 To chu\uc0\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 To cleek [from click].\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 natch or catch.\cb1 \
\cb3 To clek [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 To hatch.\cb1 \
\cb3 To clout [clouer, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 To beat.\cb1 \
\cb3 To cry (as, cry him).\cb1 \
\cb3 To call.\cb1 \
\cb3 To cryn [Belgick].\cb1 \
\cb3 To dry, or \uc0\u383 hrink in.\cb1 \
\cb3 To dearn [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 To darn, or to mend cloaths.\cb1 \
\cb3 To debur\uc0\u383 e [debour\u383 er, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 To di\uc0\u383 bur\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 Debour\uc0\u383 ement is al\u383 o \u383 ometimes made u\u383 e\cb1 \
\cb3 of by the Scots, for di\uc0\u383 bur\u383 ement.\cb1 \
\cb3 To deduce (in arithmetic).\cb1 \
\cb3 To deduct or \uc0\u383 ubtract.\cb1 \
\cb3 To deduce, properly means to draw from,\cb1 \
\cb3 or to form conclu\uc0\u383 ions from premi\u383 es.\cb1 \
\cb3 To demit [demitto, Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 To re\uc0\u383 ign.\cb1 \
\cb3 And demi\uc0\u383 \u383 ion, not for di\u383 mi\u383 \u383 ion, but re\u383 ignation.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 To de\uc0\u383 iderate [defidero, Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 To wi\uc0\u383 h for.\cb1 \
\cb3 De\uc0\u383 iderate is a word \u383 carcely u\u383 ed, \u383 ays\cb1 \
\cb3 Dr. John\uc0\u383 on.\cb1 \
\cb3 To detract [detractum, Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 To take away in general.\cb1 \
\cb3 In England, detracting only refers to\cb1 \
\cb3 fame, or reputation.\cb1 \
\cb3 To ding [Dutch].\cb1 \
\cb3 To drive, or da\uc0\u383 h,\cb1 \
\cb3 To di\uc0\u383 charge, (for)\cb1 \
\cb3 To charge, prohibit, or forbid.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. "I di\uc0\u383 charged (forbid) him to go\cb1 \
\cb3 "out to-day."\cb1 \
\cb3 To evite [evito, Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 To evitate, or avoid.\cb1 \
\cb3 To exeem [eximo, Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 To exempt.\cb1 \
\cb3 To fa\uc0\u383 h [facher, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 To tea\uc0\u383 e, trouble, or vex.\cb1 \
\cb3 Fa\uc0\u383 h is \u383 till u\u383 ed in Cumberland; vide\cb1 \
\cb3 Ralph's Poems and Glo\uc0\u383 \u383 ary, voce fa\u383 h.\cb1 \
\cb3 To feel, (erroncou\uc0\u383 ly for)\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 mell.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. "You complain much of that tan"nery,\cb1 \
\cb3 but I cannot \uc0\u383 ay I feel it."\cb1 \
\cb3 To ferly [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 To wonder.\cb1 \
\cb3 And a ferly, for, a wonder.\cb1 \
\cb3 To find, (erroneou\uc0\u383 ly for)\cb1 \
\cb3 To feel.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. "I am much hurt, find where it\cb1 \
\cb3 "pains me."\cb1 \
\cb3 To fleich [fleichir, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 To flatter, or coax.\cb1 \
\cb3 Even coax, though u\uc0\u383 ed in England, is\cb1 \
\cb3 reckoned vulgar.\cb1 \
\cb3 To flit [rhymes hit, Dani\uc0\u383 h].\cb1 \
\cb3 To remove any thing in general, particularly\cb1 \
\cb3 furniture.\cb1 \
\cb3 Flit, is \uc0\u383 till a provincial word in England.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 To flyt [rhymes flight, Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 To chide, or \uc0\u383 cold.\cb1 \
\cb3 To gab, (a corruption of)\cb1 \
\cb3 To gabble.\cb1 \
\cb3 To gang [Saxon, and Low Dutch].\cb1 \
\cb3 To go.\cb1 \
\cb3 Gang is an old word, \uc0\u383 ays Dr. John\u383 on,\cb1 \
\cb3 not now u\uc0\u383 ed, except ludicrou\u383 ly.\cb1 \
\cb3 To gar [Dani\uc0\u383 h].\cb1 \
\cb3 To make.\cb1 \
\cb3 To girn (corrupted from grin).\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 narl.\cb1 \
\cb3 Girn, it is \uc0\u383 aid, is \u383 till in u\u383 e among the\cb1 \
\cb3 northern Engli\uc0\u383 h.\cb1 \
\cb3 To glee [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 quint.\cb1 \
\cb3 To gleek [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 To gibe, or \uc0\u383 neer.\cb1 \
\cb3 To gloom [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 To frown, or look \uc0\u383 ullen.\cb1 \
\cb3 To glout.\cb1 \
\cb3 To pout.\cb1 \
\cb3 To glowr, or gloar [Dutch].\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 tare.\cb1 \
\cb3 To green.\cb1 \
\cb3 To long for, or vehemently de\uc0\u383 ire.\cb1 \
\cb3 To greet [I\uc0\u383 landic].\cb1 \
\cb3 To weep.\cb1 \
\cb3 Some erroneo\uc0\u383 ly derive greet from the\cb1 \
\cb3 Italian gridare, to cry, or weep.\cb1 \
\cb3 To had (as had your hand) [Gothic].\cb1 \
\cb3 To hold.\cb1 \
\cb3 To hain.\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 ave.\cb1 \
\cb3 Perhaps derived from haine, Fr. from the\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 pite and hatred with which avarice is attended.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 To hap (corrupted from heap).\cb1 \
\cb3 To wrap.\cb1 \
\cb3 To harry [harer, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 To rob or plunder.\cb1 \
\cb3 To hire.\cb1 \
\cb3 To let.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Scotch u\uc0\u383 e hire, as the French do\cb1 \
\cb3 louer, which \uc0\u383 ignifies both to hire, or to get\cb1 \
\cb3 the temporary u\uc0\u383 e of any thing, and to let,\cb1 \
\cb3 or give it.\cb1 \
\cb3 To houk, or holk [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 To dig.\cb1 \
\cb3 To jape [japper Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 To be\uc0\u383 patter.\cb1 \
\cb3 To inhance (any commodity).\cb1 \
\cb3 To engro\uc0\u383 s.\cb1 \
\cb3 To jouk [juchcr, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 To bend, or incline the head.\cb1 \
\cb3 But jowkerry, in the compound word\cb1 \
\cb3 jowkerry pawkry, comes from the verb,\cb1 \
\cb3 jougler, to juggle.\cb1 \
\cb3 To keek.\cb1 \
\cb3 To peep.\cb1 \
\cb3 To ken [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 To know.\cb1 \
\cb3 To ken, is \uc0\u383 till u\u383 ed in poetry, for to\cb1 \
\cb3 de\uc0\u383 cry\cb1 \
\cb3 To kep [capto, Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 To catch or meet.\cb1 \
\cb3 To kilt [Dani\uc0\u383 h].\cb1 \
\cb3 To tuck up.\cb1 \
\cb3 To kittle [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 To tickle.\cb1 \
\cb3 To learn.\cb1 \
\cb3 To teach.\cb1 \
\cb3 In many of the European languages, the\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 ame word \u383 ignifies to gain, and to impart\cb1 \
\cb3 knowledge: and it is the ca\uc0\u383 e in England as\cb1 \
\cb3 well as Scotland; but good writers will\cb1 \
\cb3 always make a di\uc0\u383 tinction between them.\cb1 \
\cb3 To lippin [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 To rely on, to tru\uc0\u383 t to.\cb1 \
\cb3 To lout [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 To bow down.\cb1 \
\cb3 To lowe [Dutch].\cb1 \
\cb3 To flame.\cb1 \
\cb3 T'o maltreat [maltraitcr, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 To abu\uc0\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 I believe maltreat is \uc0\u383 ometimes, though\cb1 \
\cb3 not often, u\uc0\u383 ed by the Engli\u383 h.\cb1 \
\cb3 To mant [\uc0\u956 \u945 \u965 \u964 \u959 \u956 \u945 \u953 , Gr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 tammer;\cb1 \
\cb3 Or to he\uc0\u383 itate in \u383 peaking, as the per\u383 ons\cb1 \
\cb3 who pronounced the Heathen Oracles affected\cb1 \
\cb3 to do, when they pretended to be\cb1 \
\cb3 in\uc0\u383 pired.\cb1 \
\cb3 To mind, (erroneoufly for)\cb1 \
\cb3 To remind, or remember.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. "My \uc0\u383 i\u383 ter (\u383 aid a devout and wor"thy\cb1 \
\cb3 lady) can repeat a di\uc0\u383 cour\u383 e from be"ginning\cb1 \
\cb3 to end, but for me, I never mind\cb1 \
\cb3 "\uc0\u383 ermons." It may, at the \u383 ame time, be\cb1 \
\cb3 ob\uc0\u383 erved, that the Scotti\u383 h idiom was formerly\cb1 \
\cb3 an Engli\uc0\u383 h one.\cb1 \
\cb3 To Mi\uc0\u383 give (erroneou\u383 ly for)\cb1 \
\cb3 To fail, or mi\uc0\u383 carry.\cb1 \
\cb3 To mi\uc0\u383 give, does not properly \u383 ignify to\cb1 \
\cb3 fail, in the general \uc0\u383 en\u383 e of that word, but\cb1 \
\cb3 only a failure, or want of confidence in the\cb1 \
\cb3 mind; and it is always u\uc0\u383 ed with the reciprocal\cb1 \
\cb3 pronoun: Ex. "His heart mi\uc0\u383 gave\cb1 \
\cb3 "him."\cb1 \
\cb3 To mi\uc0\u383 guide, (erroneou\u383 ly for)\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 ully, or abu\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. "He mi\uc0\u383 guides his cloaths;" which is\cb1 \
\cb3 a counterpart to the phra\uc0\u383 e, "he is a good\cb1 \
\cb3 "guide of them."\cb1 \
\cb3 To mynt (from mind).\cb1 \
\cb3 To aim at, or have a mind to.\cb1 \
\cb3 To narrate [narro, Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 To relate, or tell.\cb1 \
\cb3 Yet narrative, and narration, are good\cb1 \
\cb3 Engli\uc0\u383 h.\cb1 \
\cb3 To neeze [Dani\uc0\u383 h].\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 neeze.\cb1 \
\cb3 To occupy, (better)\cb1 \
\cb3 To employ.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. "I am much occupied (employed)\cb1 \
\cb3 "about \uc0\u383 uch a thing at pre\u383 ent."\cb1 \
\cb3 To pewther (corrupted from pother).\cb1 \
\cb3 To canva\uc0\u383 s.\cb1 \
\cb3 To pingle [Belgic].\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 trive, or labour hard.\cb1 \
\cb3 To poach (a cant word).\cb1 \
\cb3 To make wet, or mar\uc0\u383 hy.\cb1 \
\cb3 To prie (corrupted from prove).\cb1 \
\cb3 To try, or ta\uc0\u383 te.\cb1 \
\cb3 Prieve is made u\uc0\u383 e of by Spen\u383 er.\cb1 \
\cb3 To prig [from prog, corrupted from procurare].\cb1 \
\
\cb3 To higgle, or haggle.\cb1 \
\cb3 To remeed, (erroneou\uc0\u383 ly for)\cb1 \
\cb3 To remedy.\cb1 \
\cb3 To re\uc0\u383 et [from \u383 et].\cb1 \
\cb3 To harbour.\cb1 \
\cb3 To re\uc0\u383 trict [re\u383 trictus, Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 To limit, or confine.\cb1 \
\cb3 Re\uc0\u383 trict, is a word \u383 carcely Engli\u383 h, \u383 ays\cb1 \
\cb3 Dr. John\uc0\u383 on.\cb1 \
\cb3 To ripe (as ripe your pockets).\cb1 \
\cb3 To rifle.\cb1 \
\cb3 To roar (as the child roars).\cb1 \
\cb3 To cry, or weep.\cb1 \
\cb3 To rove (in a fever).\cb1 \
\cb3 To be light-headed, or delirious.\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 kail [echeveler, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 catter.\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 kar [from \u383 car].\cb1 \
\cb3 To frighten.\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 locken [I\u383 landic].\cb1 \
\cb3 To quench, or \uc0\u383 lake.\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 mit [from \u383 mite].\cb1 \
\cb3 To infect.\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 nuff\cb1 \
\cb3 To take \uc0\u383 nuff.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. "He \uc0\u383 nuffs a great deal, for, he takes\cb1 \
\cb3 "a great deal of \uc0\u383 nuff." This is a very\cb1 \
\cb3 common Scotici\uc0\u383 m.\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 pane [a child, Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 To wean.\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 pier [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 To a\uc0\u383 k, or enquire.\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 tammer (as the hor\u383 e \u383 tammers).\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 tumble.\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 tot (Belgic].\cb1 \
\cb3 To rebound.\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 uccomb [\u383 uccomber, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 ink under, to yield.\cb1 \
\cb3 Succomb is u\uc0\u383 ed by Foote, in his farce of\cb1 \
\cb3 the Knights, but has always been accounted\cb1 \
\cb3 a word peculiarly Scotti\uc0\u383 h.\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 u\u383 tain (as, I \u383 u\u383 tained his excu\u383 e).\cb1 \
\cb3 To admit.\cb1 \
\cb3 To tape [taper, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 ave.\cb1 \
\cb3 To teem [Dani\uc0\u383 h].\cb1 \
\cb3 To pour out.\cb1 \
\cb3 To thig [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 To beg, or a\uc0\u383 k contribution.\cb1 \
\cb3 To threap [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 To contend, or vehemently a\uc0\u383 \u383 ert.\cb1 \
\cb3 It is u\uc0\u383 ed in this \u383 en\u383 e by Chaucer, and is\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 till not uncommon in the north of England.\cb1 \
\cb3 To tire, (erroneou\uc0\u383 ly for)\cb1 \
\cb3 To wi\uc0\u383 h for any thing.\cb1 \
\cb3 To trow [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 To imagine, or believe.\cb1 \
\cb3 To tyne [I\uc0\u383 landic].\cb1 \
\cb3 To lo\uc0\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 To tyr [tirer, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 trip.\cb1 \
\cb3 To wale [Gothic].\cb1 \
\cb3 To chu\uc0\u383 c, or pick out.\cb1 \
\cb3 To weary, (erroneou\uc0\u383 ly for)\cb1 \
\cb3 To be, or grow weary.\cb1 \
\cb3 To wi\uc0\u383 \u383 en [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 To dry, or wither.\cb1 \
\cb3 To yoke (as yoke the hor\uc0\u383 es).\cb1 \
\cb3 To harne\uc0\u383 s, or put to.\cb1 \
\cb3 Yoke, is a term confined to oxen, except\cb1 \
\cb3 in poetry, where a greater licence is permitted.\cb1 \
\cb3 Both the Scots and Engli\uc0\u383 h make u\u383 e\cb1 \
\cb3 of this ridiculous phra\uc0\u383 e, put the hor\u383 es into\cb1 \
\cb3 the carriage. To be well yoked, for matched\cb1 \
\cb3 together, is a phra\uc0\u383 e peculiar to Scotland.\cb1 \
\cb3 To youl (corrupted from howl).\cb1 \
\cb3 To howl.\cb1 \
\cb3 ADJECTIVES.\cb1 \
\cb3 Auldfarand.\cb1 \
\cb3 Witty, or clever beyond expectation.\cb1 \
\cb3 Beyond what is u\uc0\u383 ual at any particular\cb1 \
\cb3 age, po\uc0\u383 \u383 ibly derived from auld varand, old\cb1 \
\cb3 traveller, the vieux routier, of the French.\cb1 \
\cb3 Bedfa\uc0\u383 t.\cb1 \
\cb3 Confined to bed; bedrid.\cb1 \
\cb3 Blate, or bleit [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 Ba\uc0\u383 hful.\cb1 \
\cb3 Blyth [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 Gay, or merry.\cb1 \
\cb3 Blyth \uc0\u383 till exi\u383 ts in poetry, particularly\cb1 \
\cb3 in \uc0\u383 ongs.\cb1 \
\cb3 Bonny [bonne, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 Pretty, hand\uc0\u383 ome\cb1 \
\cb3 Bo\uc0\u383 s [bo\u383 \u383 e, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 Hollow.\cb1 \
\cb3 Bygone, (u\uc0\u383 ed by Shake\u383 pear for)\cb1 \
\cb3 Pa\uc0\u383 t.\cb1 \
\cb3 Bypa\uc0\u383 t is al\u383 o a term of the Scotti\u383 h dialect.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Caller (corrupted from colder).\cb1 \
\cb3 Fre\uc0\u383 h.\cb1 \
\cb3 Perhaps caller, in the phra\uc0\u383 e, "a caller\cb1 \
\cb3 "egg," comes from cailler, to curdle, from\cb1 \
\cb3 the white of a fre\uc0\u383 h egg re\u383 embling curds.\cb1 \
\cb3 Cankert (from canker).\cb1 \
\cb3 Cro\uc0\u383 s, ill-natured.\cb1 \
\cb3 At lea\uc0\u383 t, cankert is an expre\u383 \u383 ive word,\cb1 \
\cb3 growing daily more ob\uc0\u383 olete in England.\cb1 \
\cb3 Canty [canto, Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 Hearty, cheerful.\cb1 \
\cb3 Clamant [clamo\uc0\u383 us, Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 Clamorous, noi\uc0\u383 y, loud.\cb1 \
\cb3 Clarty.\cb1 \
\cb3 Dirty.\cb1 \
\cb3 Clever, (erroneou\uc0\u383 ly made u\u383 e of for)\cb1 \
\cb3 Quick, active, or handy.\cb1 \
\cb3 Clever, is either derived from cleave, or,\cb1 \
\cb3 perhaps, it comes from the Scotch word\cb1 \
\cb3 claver, to talk, or prattle, which quick and\cb1 \
\cb3 active people are apt to do. The Engli\uc0\u383 h,\cb1 \
\cb3 it may be ob\uc0\u383 erved, never u\u383 e cleverne\u383 s; for\cb1 \
\cb3 quickne\uc0\u383 s, nor clever for quick.\cb1 \
\cb3 Clear (when applied to \uc0\u383 olids).\cb1 \
\cb3 Bright.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. "How clear (bright) the table is.\cb1 \
\cb3 Comatable [from come].\cb1 \
\cb3 Attainable.\cb1 \
\cb3 Conform, (more u\uc0\u383 ually)\cb1 \
\cb3 Conformable, or according to.\cb1 \
\cb3 Di\uc0\u383 conform is not an Engli\u383 h word.\cb1 \
\cb3 Corky.\cb1 \
\cb3 Airy, bri\uc0\u383 k.\cb1 \
\cb3 Curt [curtus, Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 Brief.\cb1 \
\cb3 Al\uc0\u383 o curtly, for briefly, and curtne\u383 s , for\cb1 \
\cb3 brevity, or briefne\uc0\u383 s.\cb1 \
\cb3 Difficulted.\cb1 \
\cb3 Puzzled, or perplexed.\cb1 \
\cb3 Di\uc0\u383 creet [di\u383 cret, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 Civil, or obliging.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. "He is a very di\uc0\u383 creet (civil) man,\cb1 \
\cb3 "it is true, but his brother has more di\uc0\u383 cre"tion\cb1 \
\cb3 (civility)." This is a very common\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotici\uc0\u383 m.\cb1 \
\cb3 Di\uc0\u383 tre\u383 \u383 ed.\cb1 \
\cb3 Pained.\cb1 \
\cb3 Di\uc0\u383 tre\u383 s , is properly applied to the angui\u383 h\cb1 \
\cb3 of the mind, not to the pain of the\cb1 \
\cb3 body.\cb1 \
\cb3 Dorty,\cb1 \
\cb3 Petti\uc0\u383 h, humour\u383 ome.\cb1 \
\cb3 Douce [douce, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 Sedate.\cb1 \
\cb3 Dreigh (from draw, or dry).\cb1 \
\cb3 Long, tedious.\cb1 \
\cb3 Drumly [corrupted, it is \uc0\u383 aid, from trouble,\cb1 \
\cb3 French].\cb1 \
\cb3 Muddy, thick.\cb1 \
\cb3 Dull, (u\uc0\u383 ed erroneou\u383 ly for)\cb1 \
\cb3 Deaf.\cb1 \
\cb3 Dure [durus, Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 Hard, difficult.\cb1 \
\cb3 Fendy (from find).\cb1 \
\cb3 Dexterous at finding out expedients.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ray \uc0\u383 ays, fendy is derived from defend.\cb1 \
\cb3 Fen\uc0\u383 able, now \u383 pelt fencible (from defencible).\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Fit for war.\cb1 \
\cb3 Flory (corrupted from flowery),\cb1 \
\cb3 Showey, vain.\cb1 \
\cb3 Footle\uc0\u383 s (from foot).\cb1 \
\cb3 Stumbling.\cb1 \
\cb3 Gentle, (made u\uc0\u383 e of by Shake\u383 pear for)\cb1 \
\cb3 High-\uc0\u383 pirited.\cb1 \
\cb3 Vide Humphrey Clinker, Vol. II. p. 182.\cb1 \
\cb3 Gim, (an old word for)\cb1 \
\cb3 Neat, or \uc0\u383 pruce.\cb1 \
\cb3 Gimmy, is \uc0\u383 till in u\u383 e in England,\cb1 \
\cb3 Iniquous, (in Engli\uc0\u383 h)\cb1 \
\cb3 Iniquitous, or unju\uc0\u383 t.\cb1 \
\cb3 Laigh (as, a laigh-hou\uc0\u383 e to let).\cb1 \
\cb3 Low.\cb1 \
\cb3 Landwart (pronounced landred).\cb1 \
\cb3 Aukward, ru\uc0\u383 tick.\cb1 \
\cb3 Landwart, is properly inland, towards\cb1 \
\cb3 the land or country; the idea of ru\uc0\u383 ticity\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 eems to have been taken from a\cb1 \
\cb3 notion, that the interior parts of the country\cb1 \
\cb3 are more barbarous and uncivilized than\cb1 \
\cb3 tho\uc0\u383 e of the \u383 ea-coa\u383 t.\cb1 \
\cb3 Large (as, fodder is large).\cb1 \
\cb3 Plentiful, or in plenty.\cb1 \
\cb3 Light-headed, (properly)\cb1 \
\cb3 Giddy, or delirious.\cb1 \
\cb3 Lyart [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 Grayheaded,\cb1 \
\cb3 Misfortunate, (in England always)\cb1 \
\cb3 Unfortunate.\cb1 \
\cb3 Mi\uc0\u383 ta'en.\cb1 \
\cb3 Mi\uc0\u383 taken.\cb1 \
\cb3 Mickle [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 Much.\cb1 \
\cb3 It is \uc0\u383 ingular that a Saxon word, mickle, \u383 hould grow ob\u383 olete, incon\u383 equence of the\cb1 \
\cb3 introduction of a word from the Spani\uc0\u383 h\cb1 \
\cb3 from whence much is derived,\cb1 \
\cb3 Oldi\uc0\u383 h (better)\cb1 \
\cb3 Elderly.\cb1 \
\cb3 Pawky [from pawkis, Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 Sly, cunning.\cb1 \
\cb3 Pitiful (improperly for)\cb1 \
\cb3 Piteous.\cb1 \
\cb3 Pointed (as, a pointed man).\cb1 \
\cb3 Punctual, accurate.\cb1 \
\cb3 Precipitant.\cb1 \
\cb3 Precipitate.\cb1 \
\cb3 Mr. Hume al\uc0\u383 o u\u383 es precipitantly, for\cb1 \
\cb3 precipitately. Dr. Prie\uc0\u383 tley, who makes\cb1 \
\cb3 this ob\uc0\u383 ervation, likewi\u383 e objects to informalities,\cb1 \
\cb3 made u\uc0\u383 e of by the \u383 ame author,\cb1 \
\cb3 for illegalities; di\uc0\u383 obligation (though u\u383 ed\cb1 \
\cb3 by Clarendon), for offence, or cau\uc0\u383 e of di\u383 gu\u383 t;\cb1 \
\cb3 and circuity, for circuit.\cb1 \
\cb3 Proportional, (better)\cb1 \
\cb3 Proportionable.\cb1 \
\cb3 Quheen, or wheen [Belgic].\cb1 \
\cb3 Few, not many.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. "A quheen (few), were pre\uc0\u383 ent on\cb1 \
\cb3 "that occa\uc0\u383 ion"\cb1 \
\cb3 Scots.\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotti\uc0\u383 h, or Scotch.\cb1 \
\cb3 Scots, is the name of the nation; but the\cb1 \
\cb3 proper adjective is Scotti\uc0\u383 h, abbreviated into\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotch. Vide Prie\uc0\u383 tley's Grammar, p. 79.\cb1 \
\cb3 When alone, in general, it \uc0\u383 hould be written\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotti\uc0\u383 h, but perhaps Scotch, when joined\cb1 \
\cb3 with English, for the \uc0\u383 ake of variety. Ex. The\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotti\uc0\u383 h language, but, the Scotch and Engli\u383 h\cb1 \
\cb3 dialects.\cb1 \
\cb3 Scrimp [Dani\uc0\u383 h]\cb1 \
\cb3 Little, or \uc0\u383 canty.\cb1 \
\cb3 From the \uc0\u383 ame word, in the Dani\u383 h or\cb1 \
\cb3 German language, \uc0\u383 hrimp is derived.\cb1 \
\cb3 Shaal, (corrupted from)\cb1 \
\cb3 Shallow.\cb1 \
\cb3 Short-\uc0\u383 ighted, (more u\u383 ually)\cb1 \
\cb3 Near-\uc0\u383 ighted.\cb1 \
\cb3 A near-\uc0\u383 ighted man, is one that can only\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 ee objects when they are near him: A\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 hort-\u383 ighted man, is one that cannot \u383 ee at\cb1 \
\cb3 a di\uc0\u383 tance. They are both in u\u383 e; but\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 hort-\u383 ighted is properly applied to the mind\cb1 \
\cb3 only, and near-\uc0\u383 ighted to the per\u383 on.\cb1 \
\cb3 Short-winded.\cb1 \
\cb3 Short-breathed,,\cb1 \
\cb3 The fir\uc0\u383 t is applied to hor\u383 es, the \u383 econd\cb1 \
\cb3 to men.\cb1 \
\cb3 Sib [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 Akin.\cb1 \
\cb3 Sicker [\uc0\u383 ecurus, Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 Sure, certain.\cb1 \
\cb3 Slim [Belgic].\cb1 \
\cb3 Slender bodied.\cb1 \
\cb3 Slim, though u\uc0\u383 ed by Addi\u383 on, is not\cb1 \
\cb3 now common in England.\cb1 \
\cb3 Snack (from \uc0\u383 natch).\cb1 \
\cb3 Alert, or clever.\cb1 \
\cb3 Snell [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 Sharp, piercing.\cb1 \
\cb3 Spar\uc0\u383 e [\u383 pargo, Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 Wide.\cb1 \
\cb3 Stingy, (properly covetous, u\uc0\u383 ed by the Scots\cb1 \
\cb3 for)\cb1 \
\cb3 Proud.\cb1 \
\cb3 Strapping (a ludicrous word)\cb1 \
\cb3 Tall.\cb1 \
\cb3 Sweet-blooded.\cb1 \
\cb3 Mild, or amiable,\cb1 \
\cb3 Sweir [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 Slow, lazy.\cb1 \
\cb3 Tender (as, Pope was a tender man).\cb1 \
\cb3 Sickly.\cb1 \
\cb3 Delicate, is another adjective which the\cb1 \
\cb3 Scots and Engli\uc0\u383 h u\u383 e in different \u383 en\u383 es:\cb1 \
\cb3 For by delicate, the Scots mean \uc0\u383 ickly, and\cb1 \
\cb3 the Engli\uc0\u383 h beautiful, or plea\u383 ing. The\u383 e\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 en\u383 es of the words tender, and delicate, the\cb1 \
\cb3 Scots \uc0\u383 eem to have taken from the French,\cb1 \
\cb3 who make u\uc0\u383 e of delicat, in the \u383 ame \u383 en\u383 e\cb1 \
\cb3 as foible (weak, or feeble); and tendre, for\cb1 \
\cb3 douillet (unable to bear any hard\uc0\u383 hip).\cb1 \
\cb3 Thain (as, the meat is thain).\cb1 \
\cb3 Raw, little done.\cb1 \
\cb3 Throng, or throng.\cb1 \
\cb3 Crowded.\cb1 \
\cb3 Throng \uc0\u383 hould never be u\u383 ed as an adjective.\cb1 \
\cb3 They are very throng, for intimate\cb1 \
\cb3 together, is a very common Scotici\uc0\u383 m.\cb1 \
\cb3 Toom [Dani\uc0\u383 h].\cb1 \
\cb3 Empty, hollow.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ver\uc0\u383 ant, (made u\u383 e of improperly for)\cb1 \
\cb3 Conver\uc0\u383 ant.\cb1 \
\cb3 Warm, (in the extreme, properly)\cb1 \
\cb3 Hot, or \uc0\u383 ultry.\cb1 \
\cb3 Warre, (ufed by Spen\uc0\u383 er for)\cb1 \
\cb3 Wor\uc0\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 We, wie, or wee.\cb1 \
\cb3 Little.\cb1 \
\cb3 Well advanced (as, the field is well advanced,\cb1 \
\cb3 con\uc0\u383 idering the coldne\u383 s of the \u383 ea\u383 on).\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Forward.\cb1 \
\cb3 Well-looked.\cb1 \
\cb3 Per\uc0\u383 onal, hand\u383 ome.\cb1 \
\cb3 Even well-looking, though better, is exceptionable.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Well-natured, (better)\cb1 \
\cb3 Kind, or good-natured.\cb1 \
\cb3 Yaip (corrupted from gape).\cb1 \
\cb3 Eager, or hungry.\cb1 \
\cb3 Youthy.\cb1 \
\cb3 Youthful.\cb1 \
\cb3 NOUNS.\cb1 \
\cb3 An abbacy [abatia, Low Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 An abbey.\cb1 \
\cb3 An abbacy, is the rights and privileges of\cb1 \
\cb3 an abbot; not the mona\uc0\u383 tery, or abbey, of\cb1 \
\cb3 which he is the head.\cb1 \
\cb3 An account, (erroneou\uc0\u383 ly made u\u383 e of in\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotland for)\cb1 \
\cb3 A bill.\cb1 \
\cb3 Accounts are confined to money negociations\cb1 \
\cb3 only: Hence they \uc0\u383 ay in England, an\cb1 \
\cb3 account with a banker, but, a trade\uc0\u383 man's\cb1 \
\cb3 bill.\cb1 \
\cb3 Arles, earls, or arle\uc0\u383 penny [arrha, Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 Earne\uc0\u383 t.\cb1 \
\cb3 A baggage trunk.\cb1 \
\cb3 A travelling trunk,\cb1 \
\cb3 A bairn, or bearn.\cb1 \
\cb3 A child.\cb1 \
\cb3 Bearn, is made u\uc0\u383 e of by Shake\u383 pear,\cb1 \
\cb3 Winter's Tale, Act III. Scene 7.; by Donne,\cb1 \
\cb3 in his Satires, and indeed was a very common\cb1 \
\cb3 old Engli\uc0\u383 h word. Mr. Ray derives\cb1 \
\cb3 it from the Syriac, bar, filius; but it is more\cb1 \
\cb3 probably of Saxon original.\cb1 \
\cb3 Baubee, (an old Engli\uc0\u383 h word for)\cb1 \
\cb3 Halfpenny\cb1 \
\cb3 Boadle, for, half a farthing, \uc0\u383 tands in\cb1 \
\cb3 the \uc0\u383 ame predicament, and is \u383 till known in\cb1 \
\cb3 Lanca\uc0\u383 hire.\cb1 \
\cb3 Beltain.\cb1 \
\cb3 May-day.\cb1 \
\cb3 Derived from beal, or bealan, the baal\cb1 \
\cb3 of Scripture, which, in the old language of\cb1 \
\cb3 Gaul, \uc0\u383 ignified the \u383 un. Bealtan, in the Celtic,\cb1 \
\cb3 is the fire of the Deity. As to beltain,\cb1 \
\cb3 vide an E\uc0\u383 \u383 ay on the Antiquity of the Iri\u383 h\cb1 \
\cb3 Language, printed anno 1772, p. 9, and 19.\cb1 \
\cb3 A bicker [Italian].\cb1 \
\cb3 A wooden mug.\cb1 \
\cb3 Perhaps bicker, is only another mode of\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 pelling the Englilh word beaker, u\u383 ed by\cb1 \
\cb3 Pope for a cup, with a \uc0\u383 pout in the form\cb1 \
\cb3 of a bird's beak.\cb1 \
\cb3 A blenk, or blink [Belgic].\cb1 \
\cb3 A twinkling of fair-weather, a glimp\uc0\u383 e of\cb1 \
\cb3 light.\cb1 \
\cb3 A bra\uc0\u383 h.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 light fit of \u383 ickne\u383 s.\cb1 \
\cb3 A brig, (an old Engli\uc0\u383 h word for)\cb1 \
\cb3 A bridge.\cb1 \
\cb3 It is \uc0\u383 till u\u383 ed in that \u383 en\u383 e in Lanca\u383 hire\cb1 \
\cb3 and Cambridge\uc0\u383 hire; but, in other parts of\cb1 \
\cb3 England, a brig generally \uc0\u383 ignifies only a\cb1 \
\cb3 two-masted ve\uc0\u383 \u383 el.\cb1 \
\cb3 A boar, (\uc0\u383 ometimes u\u383 ed for)\cb1 \
\cb3 A bear.\cb1 \
\cb3 Bears, are wild animals; boars, male\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 wine.\cb1 \
\cb3 Body.\cb1 \
\cb3 Soul, creature.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. "What a good body, for, good \uc0\u383 oul,\cb1 \
\cb3 or creature, it is."\cb1 \
\cb3 Burial, or burying, (better)\cb1 \
\cb3 Funeral.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. "He had a very magnificent burying,\cb1 \
\cb3 (funeral)." Burial, is the act of burying.\cb1 \
\cb3 A carle [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 A churl, or old man.\cb1 \
\cb3 A carling.\cb1 \
\cb3 An old Woman.\cb1 \
\cb3 The ce\uc0\u383 s [from cen\u383 us, Latin]\cb1 \
\cb3 The king's, or land tax.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ce\uc0\u383 s, in England, means a levy or tax\cb1 \
\cb3 upon property in general, per\uc0\u383 onal as well\cb1 \
\cb3 as landed.\cb1 \
\cb3 A chambermaid.\cb1 \
\cb3 A hou\uc0\u383 emaid.\cb1 \
\cb3 Chambermaids, are upper hou\uc0\u383 emaids; and\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 ome adopt this di\u383 tinction, the chambermaid\cb1 \
\cb3 of an inn, but the hou\uc0\u383 emaid in private habitations.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 A che\uc0\u383 t.\cb1 \
\cb3 A coffin.\cb1 \
\cb3 Hence che\uc0\u383 tening (or the act of inclo\u383 ing\cb1 \
\cb3 the corp\uc0\u383 e in a coffin) is derived, a \u383 olemn\cb1 \
\cb3 rite at the funerals of Scotchmen.\cb1 \
\cb3 A cloakbag, (an old word for)\cb1 \
\cb3 A portmanteau.\cb1 \
\cb3 A communing (from to commune).\cb1 \
\cb3 A meeting, or conver\uc0\u383 ation.\cb1 \
\cb3 A communing, in Scotland, is a meeting to\cb1 \
\cb3 conver\uc0\u383 e on any particular \u383 ubject. A free\cb1 \
\cb3 communing, is a meeting where the parties\cb1 \
\cb3 are on little ceremony with each other.\cb1 \
\cb3 Complexion.\cb1 \
\cb3 Colour, bloom.\cb1 \
\cb3 The complexion is properly the colour of\cb1 \
\cb3 the \uc0\u383 kin, whether dark, brown, or fair;\cb1 \
\cb3 whereas colour, means the bloom of the\cb1 \
\cb3 cheek, or the appearance of blood in the face.\cb1 \
\cb3 Both the\uc0\u383 e words are u\u383 ed in oppo\u383 ite \u383 en\u383 es\cb1 \
\cb3 by the Scots.\cb1 \
\cb3 A compliment.\cb1 \
\cb3 A pre\uc0\u383 ent.\cb1 \
\cb3 A compliment, is properly an expre\uc0\u383 \u383 ion\cb1 \
\cb3 of civility; a pre\uc0\u383 ent, is a gift. Ex. "He\cb1 \
\cb3 "made me a pre\uc0\u383 ent of this book, and at the\cb1 \
\cb3 "\uc0\u383 ame time complimented me, with \u383 aying\cb1 \
\cb3 "that I de\uc0\u383 erved \u383 omething better." The\cb1 \
\cb3 Scots al\uc0\u383 o \u383 ay, I got \u383 uch a thing in (for\cb1 \
\cb3 as) a pre\uc0\u383 ent.\cb1 \
\cb3 Dubiety.\cb1 \
\cb3 Doubt.\cb1 \
\cb3 But dubiety may be found in Clarendon.\cb1 \
\cb3 E\uc0\u383 cutcheon.\cb1 \
\cb3 Atchievement, or hatchment.\cb1 \
\cb3 E\uc0\u383 cutcheons, are the arms of one particular\cb1 \
\cb3 family; atchievements, corrupted into\cb1 \
\cb3 hatchments, contain al\uc0\u383 o the arms of the\cb1 \
\cb3 neare\uc0\u383 t relations, ornamented with all the\cb1 \
\cb3 pageantry of heraldry. The armorial e\uc0\u383 cutcheons,\cb1 \
\cb3 placed over the door of a hou\uc0\u383 e, or in\cb1 \
\cb3 the pari\uc0\u383 h church, after the death of any\cb1 \
\cb3 di\uc0\u383 tingui\u383 hed per\u383 on, is called hatchment in\cb1 \
\cb3 England.\cb1 \
\cb3 Expiry.\cb1 \
\cb3 Expiration.\cb1 \
\cb3 A factor, or chamberlain.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 teward.\cb1 \
\cb3 Factors, are properly agents, or \uc0\u383 ub\u383 titutes\cb1 \
\cb3 in oppidal (if that word may be made u\uc0\u383 e\cb1 \
\cb3 of), and bailiffs, and \uc0\u383 tewards, in rural matters.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 A filler.\cb1 \
\cb3 A funnel.\cb1 \
\cb3 A fleuk [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 A flounder.\cb1 \
\cb3 A fret.\cb1 \
\cb3 A bad omen.\cb1 \
\cb3 To fret, is to vex; and as nothing vexes\cb1 \
\cb3 a peevi\uc0\u383 h, \u383 uper\u383 titious per\u383 on, more than\cb1 \
\cb3 bad omens, hence it is \uc0\u383 aid that the Scots\cb1 \
\cb3 came to call a bad omen, a fret. But Dr.\cb1 \
\cb3 Percy, in his Glo\uc0\u383 \u383 arv, rather \u383 eems to think\cb1 \
\cb3 that fret comes from fright. Vide Glo\uc0\u383 \u383 .\cb1 \
\cb3 vol. i. Voce freits.\cb1 \
\cb3 A friend, (often made u\uc0\u383 e of in Scotland for)\cb1 \
\cb3 A relation.\cb1 \
\cb3 Relations are not always friends, in the\cb1 \
\cb3 Engli\uc0\u383 h \u383 en\u383 e of that word.\cb1 \
\cb3 A gavelock [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 An iron crow.\cb1 \
\cb3 Gawntree (corrupted from gallentree).\cb1 \
\cb3 Wooden frame for holding ca\uc0\u383 ks.\cb1 \
\cb3 Gear [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 Sub\uc0\u383 tance, or furniture.\cb1 \
\cb3 A geck, gawk, or gawky.\cb1 \
\cb3 A fooli\uc0\u383 h fellow.\cb1 \
\cb3 Gla\uc0\u383 \u383 es, (at lea\u383 t better)\cb1 \
\cb3 Spectacles.\cb1 \
\cb3 A goo\uc0\u383 e-pen.\cb1 \
\cb3 A goo\uc0\u383 e-quill.\cb1 \
\cb3 Greed (a corruption of greedine\uc0\u383 s).\cb1 \
\cb3 Avarice.\cb1 \
\cb3 A guillivine-pen.\cb1 \
\cb3 A black-lead pencil.\cb1 \
\cb3 Black-lead, is called killow, or collow, in\cb1 \
\cb3 Cumberland; and a guillivine-pen, is probably\cb1 \
\cb3 a corruption of a fine killow pencil.\cb1 \
\cb3 A firth [fretum, Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 An \'e6\uc0\u383 tuary, or arm of the \u383 ea.\cb1 \
\cb3 Fleet, was the old Saxon word for \'e6\uc0\u383 tuary,\cb1 \
\cb3 and fiunder, the Cumbric one. The\cb1 \
\cb3 Engli\uc0\u383 h, if they u\u383 e firth, \u383 pell it frith.\cb1 \
\cb3 Flum [flumen, Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 Flattery.\cb1 \
\cb3 Han\uc0\u383 el (from hand\u383 ale ).\cb1 \
\cb3 New-year's gift, or earne\uc0\u383 t.\cb1 \
\cb3 A good\uc0\u383 ire, or gutcher.\cb1 \
\cb3 A grandfather.\cb1 \
\cb3 Sir, is a corruption of \uc0\u383 ire, \u383 ieur, \u383 eigneur,\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 enior; and is a remains of that re\u383 pect\cb1 \
\cb3 which was paid to age by the nations\cb1 \
\cb3 of antiquity. If the father was called \uc0\u383 ire,\cb1 \
\cb3 it was natural to \uc0\u383 uppo\u383 e that the grandfather\cb1 \
\cb3 would be called good\uc0\u383 ire, corrupted\cb1 \
\cb3 into gutcher, from his greater tenderne\uc0\u383 s\cb1 \
\cb3 and indulgence. The northern Scots al\uc0\u383 o\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 ay oye, for grand-child.\cb1 \
\cb3 A hor\uc0\u383 e-couper.\cb1 \
\cb3 A hor\uc0\u383 e-dealer.\cb1 \
\cb3 A hor\uc0\u383 e-hyrer.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 table-keeper.\cb1 \
\cb3 A hor\uc0\u383 e-hyrer, is properly one that gives\cb1 \
\cb3 the hyre, and not he who gets it.\cb1 \
\cb3 An indweller.\cb1 \
\cb3 An inhabitant, or inmate.\cb1 \
\cb3 Indwelling, is al\uc0\u383 o Scotch. Dwell, and\cb1 \
\cb3 dwellers, are Engli\uc0\u383 h.\cb1 \
\cb3 An inkhorn.\cb1 \
\cb3 An inkholdcr.\cb1 \
\cb3 Yet, a \uc0\u383 ilver inkhorn, is not \u383 o violent a\cb1 \
\cb3 catachre\uc0\u383 is as a \u383 ilver candle\u383 tick; for, in the\cb1 \
\cb3 Anglo-Saxon, horn \uc0\u383 ignified a receptacle in\cb1 \
\cb3 general, of whatever materials it was compo\uc0\u383 ed.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Kindling (from kindle).\cb1 \
\cb3 Coals, live coals, or firing.\cb1 \
\cb3 I believe kindling, would be under-\uc0\u383 tood\cb1 \
\cb3 in York\uc0\u383 hire.\cb1 \
\cb3 Knitting.\cb1 \
\cb3 Tape.\cb1 \
\cb3 The lift.\cb1 \
\cb3 The firmament.\cb1 \
\cb3 Lift, is al\uc0\u383 o u\u383 ed for a great load of\cb1 \
\cb3 thing, or a great quantity of liquor.\cb1 \
\cb3 Lime.\cb1 \
\cb3 Mortar.\cb1 \
\cb3 Lime is the material, but mortar is the\cb1 \
\cb3 cement when made.\cb1 \
\cb3 A loch [Er\uc0\u383 e].\cb1 \
\cb3 A lake.\cb1 \
\cb3 Lochleeches.\cb1 \
\cb3 Leeches.\cb1 \
\cb3 In Aberdeen, it is \uc0\u383 aid that leeches are\cb1 \
\cb3 cried in the \uc0\u383 \u383 treets under the name of Black\cb1 \
\cb3 Doctors, whelped in a pool.\cb1 \
\cb3 The luff.\cb1 \
\cb3 The palm of the hand.\cb1 \
\cb3 The lug [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 The ear.\cb1 \
\cb3 A meath [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 A mark, a line, or channel.\cb1 \
\cb3 Midges [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 Gnats.\cb1 \
\cb3 At lea\uc0\u383 t gnats, is the more u\u383 ual word in\cb1 \
\cb3 England.\cb1 \
\cb3 A neb, or nib [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 A no\uc0\u383 e, or bill of a bird.\cb1 \
\cb3 A Nonjurant.\cb1 \
\cb3 A Nonjurer.\cb1 \
\cb3 The oxtar.\cb1 \
\cb3 The armpit.\cb1 \
\cb3 A paddock [Saxon or Belgic].\cb1 \
\cb3 A frog, or toad.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Engli\uc0\u383 h u\u383 e paddock, a corruption\cb1 \
\cb3 of parrack, whence park is derived, for a\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 mall inclo\u383 ure, particularly where deer are\cb1 \
\cb3 kept.\cb1 \
\cb3 A pet, or peat [petit, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 A favourite.\cb1 \
\cb3 Peat, is made u\uc0\u383 e of by Shake\u383 pear for\cb1 \
\cb3 darling; and hence pyet might be derived\cb1 \
\cb3 (if it is an old word, which is much\cb1 \
\cb3 doubted), a name given by the fair of\cb1 \
\cb3 Edinburgh to a favourite beau.\cb1 \
\cb3 Pennies.\cb1 \
\cb3 Pence.\cb1 \
\cb3 Al\uc0\u383 o halfpennies, for halfpence.\cb1 \
\cb3 A pier (as, Leith pier).\cb1 \
\cb3 A key, quay, wharf, or harbour.\cb1 \
\cb3 Pith.\cb1 \
\cb3 Strength.\cb1 \
\cb3 A plagiari\uc0\u383 t, (in England always)\cb1 \
\cb3 A plagiary.\cb1 \
\cb3 Pleni\uc0\u383 hing [plenus, Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 Hou\uc0\u383 ehold furniture.\cb1 \
\cb3 A ploy.\cb1 \
\cb3 A little \uc0\u383 port, or merriment; a merry meeting.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 A poke, (in England, generally)\cb1 \
\cb3 A bag.\cb1 \
\cb3 Polity.\cb1 \
\cb3 Civil con\uc0\u383 titution, form of government.\cb1 \
\cb3 Notwith\uc0\u383 tanding Hooker's and Pownal's\cb1 \
\cb3 authority, polity is reckoned a Scotch word.\cb1 \
\cb3 A pouch.\cb1 \
\cb3 A pocket.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Pr\'e6\uc0\u383 es (of a meeting).\cb1 \
\cb3 The Chairman.\cb1 \
\cb3 A pro\uc0\u383 pect gla\u383 s, (better)\cb1 \
\cb3 A per\uc0\u383 pective.\cb1 \
\cb3 Prog [a cant word, from procurare, Lat.]\cb1 \
\cb3 Provi\uc0\u383 ions.\cb1 \
\cb3 A quern [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 A handmill.\cb1 \
\cb3 Rheumatics.\cb1 \
\cb3 Rheumati\uc0\u383 m.\cb1 \
\cb3 A roup [Belgic].\cb1 \
\cb3 An auction, or \uc0\u383 ale.\cb1 \
\cb3 The roup, al\uc0\u383 o, in Scotland, is hoar\u383 ene\u383 s;\cb1 \
\cb3 and to roup, to fell by auction.\cb1 \
\cb3 A rouping wife.\cb1 \
\cb3 A female auctioneer.\cb1 \
\cb3 A rung (corrupted from wrung).\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 tick, or cudgel.\cb1 \
\cb3 Scath, or Skaith [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 Lo\uc0\u383 s, or damage.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 helty (from Shetland).\cb1 \
\cb3 A pony.\cb1 \
\cb3 The \uc0\u383 hore, (erroneou\u383 ly for)\cb1 \
\cb3 The quay.\cb1 \
\cb3 The \uc0\u383 hore, in England, is the coa\u383 t of the\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 ea, not the quay of a harbour.\cb1 \
\cb3 Skiny [\uc0\u963 \u967 \u959 \u953 \u965 \u959 \u962 ].\cb1 \
\cb3 Packthread.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 kipper [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 A pilot, or ma\uc0\u383 ter of a ve\u383 \u383 el.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 ot.\cb1 \
\cb3 A fool.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Scots u\uc0\u383 e \u383 ot, as the French do un\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 ot, not for a tippler, but a fool.\cb1 \
\cb3 Sough [Er\uc0\u383 e].\cb1 \
\cb3 Whine.\cb1 \
\cb3 Spice.\cb1 \
\cb3 Pepper.\cb1 \
\cb3 Probably pepper was the fir\uc0\u383 t \u383 pice\cb1 \
\cb3 known in Scotland.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 punk, or \u383 ponk.\cb1 \
\cb3 A match; touchwood.\cb1 \
\cb3 Hence \uc0\u383 punky is derived, made u\u383 e of\cb1 \
\cb3 by the Scots, for gay or lively.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 quare.\cb1 \
\cb3 A ruler.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 taw.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 urfeit, di\u383 reli\u383 h.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 torm.\cb1 \
\cb3 A great fall of \uc0\u383 now, or \u383 nowy weather.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 torm, in England, is a tempe\u383 t, or\cb1 \
\cb3 violent commotion of the elements; a lying\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 torm, and a great \u383 torm on the ground, are\cb1 \
\cb3 phra\uc0\u383 es peculiarly Scotti\u383 h. A wreath of\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 now, for a heap of \u383 now collected by the\cb1 \
\cb3 wind, \uc0\u383 tands in the \u383 ame predicament.\cb1 \
\cb3 Suet [\uc0\u383 uet, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 Fat.\cb1 \
\cb3 The thrapple.\cb1 \
\cb3 The throat.\cb1 \
\cb3 A tod [German.]\cb1 \
\cb3 A fox.\cb1 \
\cb3 A toll [telonia, Latin.]\cb1 \
\cb3 A turnpike.\cb1 \
\cb3 The turnpike is the gate, the toll is the\cb1 \
\cb3 money paid. In many parts of England,\cb1 \
\cb3 at the \uc0\u383 ame time, turnpikes are called toll--\cb1 \
\cb3 gates.\cb1 \
\cb3 A tri\uc0\u383 te [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 A fair, or market.\cb1 \
\cb3 A tike [Runic].\cb1 \
\cb3 A dog, or cur.\cb1 \
\cb3 Vacance.\cb1 \
\cb3 Vacation.\cb1 \
\cb3 A vocable.\cb1 \
\cb3 A word.\cb1 \
\cb3 Waits [guet, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 Watch.\cb1 \
\cb3 Hence comes the law-term wayt-fee, or\cb1 \
\cb3 a fee anciently paid for keeping watch and\cb1 \
\cb3 ward.\cb1 \
\cb3 Wark [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 Work.\cb1 \
\cb3 Wark was the original word, and is \uc0\u383 till\cb1 \
\cb3 u\uc0\u383 ed in compo\u383 ition, as in bulwark.\cb1 \
\cb3 Wa\uc0\u383 ter (in a candle).\cb1 \
\cb3 Thief.\cb1 \
\cb3 Whit\uc0\u383 unday.\cb1 \
\cb3 Whit\uc0\u383 untide.\cb1 \
\cb3 The other great Scotch term, Martinmas,\cb1 \
\cb3 the Engli\uc0\u383 h have corrupted into Martilmas,\cb1 \
\cb3 or Martlemas. Candlemas, and\cb1 \
\cb3 Lammas, have been made u\uc0\u383 e of by Engli\u383 h\cb1 \
\cb3 writers, but are not much known at\cb1 \
\cb3 pre\uc0\u383 ent. Yule, corrupted from vigili\'e6, was\cb1 \
\cb3 of old the name which Chri\uc0\u383 tmas had in\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotland; and in Wales, Wiliay, which\cb1 \
\cb3 originally \uc0\u383 ignifed holidays in general, was\cb1 \
\cb3 afterwards confined to Chri\uc0\u383 tmas. Shrove\cb1 \
\cb3 Tue\uc0\u383 day, is called Fa\u383 ten's e'en by the Scots,\cb1 \
\cb3 properly, fa\uc0\u383 ting even, the \u383 ucceeding day\cb1 \
\cb3 being A\uc0\u383 h Wedne\u383 day, the fir\u383 t of the Lent\cb1 \
\cb3 fa\uc0\u383 t.\cb1 \
\cb3 Wite [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 Blame.\cb1 \
\cb3 Yate [Saxon], a provincial word in England.\cb1 \
\cb3 Gate.\cb1 \
\cb3 PARTICLES.\cb1 \
\cb3 Above (as, who lives above you).\cb1 \
\cb3 Over.\cb1 \
\cb3 Albeit (Old Engli\uc0\u383 h).\cb1 \
\cb3 Although.\cb1 \
\cb3 Allenarly [from alone, or allen, Dutch].\cb1 \
\cb3 Solely, only.\cb1 \
\cb3 Altogether, (erroneou\uc0\u383 ly for)\cb1 \
\cb3 In all.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. "Of money and moveables I lo\uc0\u383 t,\cb1 \
\cb3 "altogether (in all), about fifty pounds."\cb1 \
\cb3 Altogether, is completely, without exception.\cb1 \
\cb3 Almo\uc0\u383 t never.\cb1 \
\cb3 Seldom or never.\cb1 \
\cb3 Anent [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 Concerning, or with regard to.\cb1 \
\cb3 As, (erroneou\uc0\u383 ly for)\cb1 \
\cb3 Than.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. "More as that, I would at all times\cb1 \
\cb3 "rather chu\uc0\u383 e to buy as \u383 ell."\cb1 \
\cb3 Attour [alentour, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 Be\uc0\u383 ide, over and above.\cb1 \
\cb3 Aye [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 Always.\cb1 \
\cb3 Below, (erroneou\uc0\u383 ly for)\cb1 \
\cb3 Under.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. "Below (under) the table. Al\uc0\u383 o,\cb1 \
\cb3 "he wore his armour below his clothes, and\cb1 \
\cb3 "hid his goods below ground." Below never\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 ignifies beneath, \u383 o as to be covered or\cb1 \
\cb3 hidden.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ben (corrupted from be in).\cb1 \
\cb3 In, or into.\cb1 \
\cb3 But (a corruption of be out).\cb1 \
\cb3 Without.\cb1 \
\cb3 But and ben, is the outer and inner room.\cb1 \
\cb3 In low farm-hou\uc0\u383 es of two rooms, the\cb1 \
\cb3 outer room is called the but, and the inner\cb1 \
\cb3 one the ben. Dr. Percy (Reliques of Ancient\cb1 \
\cb3 Poetry) derives but, from the Dutch\cb1 \
\cb3 buyten; and ben, from the Dutch binnen.\cb1 \
\cb3 Glo\uc0\u383 \u383 . to Vol. III. The reader will \u383 ee\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 ome curious ob\u383 ervations upon but, and\cb1 \
\cb3 other conjunctions, in Horn's Letter to\cb1 \
\cb3 Dunning, printed anno 1778, particularly\cb1 \
\cb3 p. 39, and 53.\cb1 \
\cb3 Eik [Belgic].\cb1 \
\cb3 Al\uc0\u383 o.\cb1 \
\cb3 El\uc0\u383 e , (as, I have done it el\u383 e, for)\cb1 \
\cb3 Already.\cb1 \
\cb3 Evenly.\cb1 \
\cb3 Even.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ever a, or e'er a.\cb1 \
\cb3 Any.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. "Saw you e'er a thing like it."\cb1 \
\cb3 Heigh.\cb1 \
\cb3 Hey.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Engli\uc0\u383 h \u383 pell it heigh (but without\cb1 \
\cb3 pronouncing it as the Scots do), in the interjection\cb1 \
\cb3 heigh-ho.\cb1 \
\cb3 Hout (from out).\cb1 \
\cb3 Fye.\cb1 \
\cb3 How \uc0\u383 oon, (improperly for)\cb1 \
\cb3 As \uc0\u383 oon as.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. "How \uc0\u383 oon (as \u383 oon as) I go home.\cb1 \
\cb3 I will \uc0\u383 end it.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ilk [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 Each, every.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. "Ilk ane (every one) of you \uc0\u383 hould\cb1 \
\cb3 "have been there." It al\uc0\u383 o \u383 ignifies the\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 ame, for "Martin of that ilk" would denote\cb1 \
\cb3 a gentleman, who\uc0\u383 e \u383 urname is the\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 ame with the name or title of his e\u383 tate.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ju\uc0\u383 t \u383 o. [as ju\u383 tlement, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 True; it is \uc0\u383 o.\cb1 \
\cb3 Lang\uc0\u383 yne.\cb1 \
\cb3 Long \uc0\u383 ince, or long ago.\cb1 \
\cb3 No, (\uc0\u383 ometimes u\u383 ed for)\cb1 \
\cb3 Not.\cb1 \
\cb3 As, no drop, for not a drop; no po\uc0\u383 \u383 ible,\cb1 \
\cb3 for not po\uc0\u383 \u383 ible.\cb1 \
\cb3 No more.\cb1 \
\cb3 No farther, only.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. "How often has he been married?\cb1 \
\cb3 "Na more than (only) once. How far does\cb1 \
\cb3 "he go with you? No more (farther) than\cb1 \
\cb3 "Edinburgh." Mr. Hume, and other\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotch writers, are al\uc0\u383 o apt to u\u383 e no more,\cb1 \
\cb3 for any more. Ex. "Ario\uc0\u383 to,,Ta\u383 \u383 o, Ga"lileo,\cb1 \
\cb3 no more than (any more than) Rap"phael,\cb1 \
\cb3 were not born in republics."\cb1 \
\cb3 Not \uc0\u383 o \u383 oon.\cb1 \
\cb3 Not yet.\cb1 \
\cb3 Wherever not yet can be u\uc0\u383 ed, not \u383 o \u383 oon\cb1 \
\cb3 ought to be avoided.\cb1 \
\cb3 Overly.\cb1 \
\cb3 Carele\uc0\u383 sly, \u383 uperficially.\cb1 \
\cb3 Pre\uc0\u383 ently.\cb1 \
\cb3 Now, or at pre\uc0\u383 ent.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. "I do not know where he is pre\uc0\u383 ently."\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Slidderly (corrupted from \uc0\u383 lide).\cb1 \
\cb3 Slippery.\cb1 \
\cb3 Slippy [a provincial word].\cb1 \
\cb3 Slippery.\cb1 \
\cb3 So \uc0\u383 oon as.\cb1 \
\cb3 As \uc0\u383 oon as.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. "He de\uc0\u383 iried Edinburgh, \u383 o \u383 oon (as\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 oon) as he came to Leith." So \u383 oon as,\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 ays Dr. Prie\u383 tley, certainly does not read\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 o well as, as \u383 oon as, particularly in the\cb1 \
\cb3 middle of a \uc0\u383 entence. This is a fault which\cb1 \
\cb3 Mr. Hume is very apt to fall into. Ex.\cb1 \
\cb3 "Religious zeal made them fly to their\cb1 \
\cb3 "\uc0\u383 tandards, \u383 o \u383 oon as the trumpet was\cb1 \
\cb3 "\uc0\u383 ounded by their \u383 piritual and temporal\cb1 \
\cb3 "leaders."\cb1 \
\cb3 Such.\cb1 \
\cb3 So.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. "Such a ju\uc0\u383 t title, for \u383 o ju\u383 t a title."\cb1 \
\cb3 Through.\cb1 \
\cb3 Acro\uc0\u383 s.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. "To walk through (acro\uc0\u383 s) the\cb1 \
\cb3 room.\cb1 \
\cb3 Timou\uc0\u383 ly (from timeous).\cb1 \
\cb3 Timely, early.\cb1 \
\cb3 Tofore [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 Before.\cb1 \
\cb3 Toply.\cb1 \
\cb3 Finely.\cb1 \
\cb3 Tout (as, tout man).\cb1 \
\cb3 P\uc0\u383 haw.\cb1 \
\cb3 In Shake\uc0\u383 pear it is \u383 pelt tut.\cb1 \
\cb3 Whenever.\cb1 \
\cb3 As \uc0\u383 oon as.\cb1 \
\cb3 Yon, or yond [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 That.\cb1 \
\cb3 Yon and yond, are two old Engli\uc0\u383 h adverbs\cb1 \
\cb3 and adjectives, on the brink of being\cb1 \
\cb3 exploded; and perhaps yonder, will \uc0\u383 oon\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 hare the \u383 ame fate.\cb1 \
\cb3 I \uc0\u383 hall conclude this Glo\u383 \u383 ary with the\cb1 \
\cb3 following lines of Horace, as written in\cb1 \
\cb3 the original, and as tran\uc0\u383 lated by Dr. Francis,\cb1 \
\cb3 who has given us the la\uc0\u383 t, and be\u383 t\cb1 \
\cb3 ver\uc0\u383 ion of that excellent Poet.\cb1 \
\cb3 "Mortalia facta peribunt:\cb1 \
\cb3 "Ne dum \uc0\u383 ermonum \u383 let honos, et gratia vivax.\cb1 \
\cb3 "Multa rena\uc0\u383 centur, qu\'e6 jam cecidere, cadentque,\cb1 \
\cb3 "Qu\'e6 nunc \uc0\u383 unt in honore vocabula, \u383 i volet u\u383 us,\cb1 \
\cb3 "Quem pen\'e8s arbitrium e\uc0\u383 t, et jus, at norma loquendi."\cb1 \
\cb3 DE ARTE POET. ver\uc0\u383 . 68.\cb1 \
\cb3 "All the\uc0\u383 e mu\u383 t peri\u383 h; and \u383 hall words pre\u383 ume,\cb1 \
\cb3 "To hold their honours, and immortal bloom?\cb1 \
\cb3 "Many \uc0\u383 hall ri\u383 e, that now forgotten lie,\cb1 \
\cb3 "Others, in pre\uc0\u383 ent credit, \u383 oon \u383 hall die;\cb1 \
\cb3 "If cu\uc0\u383 tom will, whole arbitrary \u383 way,\cb1 \
\cb3 "Words, and the forms of language, mu\uc0\u383 t obey,"\cb1 \
\cb3 CHAP. III.\cb1 \
\cb3 Mi\uc0\u383 cellaneous words and phra\u383 es.\cb1 \
\cb3 WHEN the union, the con\uc0\u383 tant intercour\u383 e,\cb1 \
\cb3 and the frequent inter--\cb1 \
\cb3 marriages between the Scots and Engli\uc0\u383 h\cb1 \
\cb3 are con\uc0\u383 idered, it would be natural to \u383 uppo\u383 e\cb1 \
\cb3 that the dialects they \uc0\u383 peak \u383 hould\cb1 \
\cb3 nearly re\uc0\u383 emble each other; \u383 o far at lea\u383 t-as\cb1 \
\cb3 regards entertainments, amu\uc0\u383 ements,\cb1 \
\cb3 clothes, furniture, and other mi\uc0\u383 cellaneous\cb1 \
\cb3 articles, the common \uc0\u383 ubjects of conver\u383 ation.\cb1 \
\cb3 But the words and phra\uc0\u383 es made\cb1 \
\cb3 u\uc0\u383 e of by the two nations, differ in the\u383 e,\cb1 \
\cb3 as well as in other things; and the odious\cb1 \
\cb3 di\uc0\u383 tinction, as Sheridan calls it, remains\cb1 \
\cb3 equally con\uc0\u383 picuous, at the table, in the\cb1 \
\cb3 pulpit, and at the bar: A di\uc0\u383 tinction, which\cb1 \
\cb3 is far from being of advantage to \uc0\u383 uch\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotchmen as either re\uc0\u383 ide in, or occa\u383 ionally\cb1 \
\cb3 vi\uc0\u383 it the capital. It is, indeed, a\u383 toni\u383 hing\cb1 \
\cb3 how uncouth, and often how unintelligible,\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotch words and phra\uc0\u383 es are to\cb1 \
\cb3 an inhabitant of London, and how much it\cb1 \
\cb3 expo\uc0\u383 es \u383 uch as make u\u383 e of them, to the\cb1 \
\cb3 deri\uc0\u383 ion of tho\u383 e with whom they happen\cb1 \
\cb3 to have any communication or intercour\uc0\u383 e:\cb1 \
\cb3 It is therefore hoped that the following li\uc0\u383 t,\cb1 \
\cb3 comprehending the mo\uc0\u383 t common and material\cb1 \
\cb3 differences, will not be unacceptable.\cb1 \
\cb3 ENTERTAINMENTS.\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotch. To cover the table.\cb1 \
\cb3 Engli\uc0\u383 h. To lay the cloth.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Engli\uc0\u383 h here agree with the French\cb1 \
\cb3 idiom, of "mettez la nappe."\cb1 \
\cb3 To di\uc0\u383 h dinner.\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 erve, or bring up dinner.\cb1 \
\cb3 To di\uc0\u383 h dinner, may be \u383 aid to the cook;\cb1 \
\cb3 but to \uc0\u383 erve, or bring up dinner, to the butler\cb1 \
\cb3 or footman.\cb1 \
\cb3 To take the air off any thing, (better)\cb1 \
\cb3 To take the chill off any thing.\cb1 \
\cb3 To make a \uc0\u383 allad.\cb1 \
\cb3 To dre\uc0\u383 s a \u383 allad.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Scotch phra\uc0\u383 e probably means, to\cb1 \
\cb3 make a \uc0\u383 allad fit for eating.\cb1 \
\cb3 To take out a gla\uc0\u383 s of wine.\cb1 \
\cb3 To take off a gla\uc0\u383 s of wine.\cb1 \
\cb3 To take off, is the proper word for to\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 wallow.\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 erve the tea-things, (better)\cb1 \
\cb3 To hand about the tea-things.\cb1 \
\cb3 To fill the kettle.\cb1 \
\cb3 To fill the teapot.\cb1 \
\cb3 The kettle is emptied, and not filled.\cb1 \
\cb3 To be appeti\uc0\u383 ed.\cb1 \
\cb3 To be hungry.\cb1 \
\cb3 Appeti\uc0\u383 e is a word peculiarly Scotti\u383 h.\cb1 \
\cb3 To have a good \uc0\u383 tomach.\cb1 \
\cb3 To have a good appetite.\cb1 \
\cb3 This may be cited as one in\uc0\u383 tance, among\cb1 \
\cb3 many others, of the refinement of the Engli\uc0\u383 h\cb1 \
\cb3 language; for appetite, is \uc0\u383 urely a more\cb1 \
\cb3 polite and delicate word than \uc0\u383 tomach, which\cb1 \
\cb3 was formerly made u\uc0\u383 e of by many Engli\u383 h\cb1 \
\cb3 authors, and is \uc0\u383 till \u383 ometimes u\u383 ed,\cb1 \
\cb3 though not in genteel company.\cb1 \
\cb3 I have had two \uc0\u383 ervices of broth.\cb1 \
\cb3 I have had two plates of broth.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Engli\uc0\u383 h \u383 ay a plate of broth, as, a\cb1 \
\cb3 gla\uc0\u383 s of wine. A \u383 ervice, for a plate of any\cb1 \
\cb3 thing, is never made u\uc0\u383 e of.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 ad dinner.\cb1 \
\cb3 A hearty dinner.\cb1 \
\cb3 Sad is here made u\uc0\u383 e of, not for a bad\cb1 \
\cb3 or di\uc0\u383 mal, but for a hearty and \u383 ub\u383 tantial\cb1 \
\cb3 dinner. In \uc0\u383 ome provincial dialects, at the\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 ame time, \u383 ad is u\u383 ed for heavy.\cb1 \
\cb3 An a\uc0\u383 \u383 et [a\u383 \u383 iette, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 mall di\u383 h, or plate.\cb1 \
\cb3 The head and foot of a table.\cb1 \
\cb3 The top and bottom of a table.\cb1 \
\cb3 The foot of a table, is properly what it\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 tands on.\cb1 \
\cb3 Old bread.\cb1 \
\cb3 Stale bread.\cb1 \
\cb3 Old bread would probably be mu\uc0\u383 ty,\cb1 \
\cb3 Sowens, (an old Engli\uc0\u383 h word for).\cb1 \
\cb3 Oatmeal flummery.\cb1 \
\cb3 Brochan [Er\uc0\u383 e].\cb1 \
\cb3 Gruel, or water-gruel.\cb1 \
\cb3 Kail (a corruption of cole).\cb1 \
\cb3 Greens, or cabbage.\cb1 \
\cb3 Cole, is a general word for herbs; and\cb1 \
\cb3 as many herbs were put into the Scotch\cb1 \
\cb3 kinds of broth, hence kail, corrupted from\cb1 \
\cb3 cole, came to \uc0\u383 ignify broth.\cb1 \
\cb3 Fle\uc0\u383 h.\cb1 \
\cb3 Meat.\cb1 \
\cb3 In the old Engli\uc0\u383 h dialect, meat \u383 ignified\cb1 \
\cb3 food in general. John, xxi. 5. But in\cb1 \
\cb3 modern Engli\uc0\u383 h, it denotes fle\u383 h meat, or\cb1 \
\cb3 fle\uc0\u383 h fit to eat. Meat is \u383 urely a more delicate\cb1 \
\cb3 word to u\uc0\u383 e than fle\u383 h, particularly at\cb1 \
\cb3 table.\cb1 \
\cb3 A jigot of mutton [gigot, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 A leg of mutton.\cb1 \
\cb3 Veal's head and feet [veel, Old Fr. now\cb1 \
\cb3 veau].\cb1 \
\cb3 Calve's head and feet.\cb1 \
\cb3 Veal, is the fle\uc0\u383 h of the animal killed\cb1 \
\cb3 for the table; and the Scots u\uc0\u383 e that word\cb1 \
\cb3 as the French do veau, copying that fa\uc0\u383 hionable\cb1 \
\cb3 nation in idioms, which they are\cb1 \
\cb3 obliged to make u\uc0\u383 e of from the poverty\cb1 \
\cb3 of their language.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 liver of beef (old Engli\u383 h, for)\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 lice of beef.\cb1 \
\cb3 Hard fi\uc0\u383 h.\cb1 \
\cb3 Salt fi\uc0\u383 h.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Scots judge by the touch, the Engli\uc0\u383 h\cb1 \
\cb3 by the ta\uc0\u383 te.\cb1 \
\cb3 Rauns, or roans [Dani\uc0\u383 h].\cb1 \
\cb3 Roes.\cb1 \
\cb3 Prawns.\cb1 \
\cb3 Shrimps.\cb1 \
\cb3 There are few, if any, prawns in Scotland;\cb1 \
\cb3 but the Scots give that name to what\cb1 \
\cb3 in England are called \uc0\u383 hrimps.\cb1 \
\cb3 Partans.\cb1 \
\cb3 Crabs.\cb1 \
\cb3 Toes of crabs and lob\uc0\u383 ters.\cb1 \
\cb3 Claws of crabs and lob\uc0\u383 ters.\cb1 \
\cb3 Gravy.\cb1 \
\cb3 Sauce.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Scots do not always attend to the\cb1 \
\cb3 di\uc0\u383 tinction between \u383 auce and gravy. Gravy\cb1 \
\cb3 is the natural juice of the meat, \uc0\u383 auce is\cb1 \
\cb3 made by art, as anchovy, or lob\uc0\u383 ter \u383 auce,\cb1 \
\cb3 &c. The Engli\uc0\u383 h, at the \u383 ame time, give\cb1 \
\cb3 the name of gravy, to the artificial liquid\cb1 \
\cb3 made for fowls.\cb1 \
\cb3 Game.\cb1 \
\cb3 Wild fowl.\cb1 \
\cb3 Game includes hares, partridges, and the\cb1 \
\cb3 like; for the pre\uc0\u383 evation of which \u383 o many\cb1 \
\cb3 laws have been vainly enacted. Teal,\cb1 \
\cb3 wild ducks, and the like, have monopolized\cb1 \
\cb3 the name of wild fowl. Some arbitrary\cb1 \
\cb3 di\uc0\u383 tinctions have been e\u383 tabli\u383 hed in numbering\cb1 \
\cb3 game, fi\uc0\u383 h, and wild fowl, not\cb1 \
\cb3 always attended to by the Scots. Thus,\cb1 \
\cb3 the Engli\uc0\u383 h always \u383 ay, a couple (not pair,\cb1 \
\cb3 according to the Scotti\uc0\u383 h idiom) of fowls,\cb1 \
\cb3 ducks, &c.; a brace of carp, tench, partridges,\cb1 \
\cb3 woodcocks, &c.; a pair of foals,\cb1 \
\cb3 and a lea\uc0\u383 h, for three partridges, woodcocks,\cb1 \
\cb3 &c.\cb1 \
\cb3 A couple of hens.\cb1 \
\cb3 A couple of fowls.\cb1 \
\cb3 Fried chickens, (properly)\cb1 \
\cb3 Friars chickens.\cb1 \
\cb3 A di\uc0\u383 h invented by that luxurious body\cb1 \
\cb3 of men.\cb1 \
\cb3 Bun, (an old word for)\cb1 \
\cb3 Plumcake, or twelfthcake.\cb1 \
\cb3 Whigs.\cb1 \
\cb3 Chel\uc0\u383 ea buns.\cb1 \
\cb3 Sweetys, confections.\cb1 \
\cb3 Sweetmeats, confectionary.\cb1 \
\cb3 Carvys.\cb1 \
\cb3 Carroways.\cb1 \
\cb3 Both nations write this word as they pronounce\cb1 \
\cb3 it.\cb1 \
\cb3 How much the pound of tea, &c.\cb1 \
\cb3 How much a pound of tea, &c.\cb1 \
\cb3 The pound, only refers to one particular\cb1 \
\cb3 pound. The article a, \uc0\u383 tands for any, or\cb1 \
\cb3 every. "We have gained five \uc0\u383 hillings the\cb1 \
\cb3 "piece," for "a piece," is al\uc0\u383 o exceptionable\cb1 \
\cb3 Bi\uc0\u383 cuit.\cb1 \
\cb3 Confectioners cakes.\cb1 \
\cb3 Bi\uc0\u383 cuit, is properly bread baked hard for\cb1 \
\cb3 long voyages, from bis, twice, and cuit,\cb1 \
\cb3 baked. But in Scotland, it is al\uc0\u383 o made\cb1 \
\cb3 u\uc0\u383 e of for confectioners cakes, in imitation\cb1 \
\cb3 of the French word bi\uc0\u383 cuit\cb1 \
\cb3 Skonns.\cb1 \
\cb3 Thin cakes of flour.\cb1 \
\cb3 Spice.\cb1 \
\cb3 Pepper\cb1 \
\cb3 The Scots u\uc0\u383 e \u383 pice, (the general word)\cb1 \
\cb3 for pepper, as if there was no other \uc0\u383 pice\cb1 \
\cb3 but pepper.\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotch collops.\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotched collops.\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotched collops is not a di\uc0\u383 h invented by\cb1 \
\cb3 the Scots, or peculiar to Scotland, but derived\cb1 \
\cb3 from the old English verb, to \uc0\u383 cotch,\cb1 \
\cb3 or cut. A hagge\uc0\u383 s, is another di\u383 h not, in\cb1 \
\cb3 former times, belonging exclusively to Scotland,\cb1 \
\cb3 but derived from the English verb,\cb1 \
\cb3 to haggle, i. e. to chop, or cut; from the\cb1 \
\cb3 meat being chopt \uc0\u383 mall, of which the di\u383 h is made.\cb1 \
\cb3 Barm, (an old Engli\uc0\u383 h word, for)\cb1 \
\cb3 Ye\uc0\u383 t, or yea\u383 t.\cb1 \
\cb3 In the \uc0\u383 outhern parts of England, ye\u383 t is called ri\u383 ing.\cb1 \
\cb3 Strong Ale, (u\uc0\u383 ually in England called)\cb1 \
\cb3 Ale.\cb1 \
\cb3 Whi\uc0\u383 ky.\cb1 \
\cb3 U\uc0\u383 quebaugh, aquavit\'e6.\cb1 \
\cb3 Whi\uc0\u383 ky is a corruption of u\u383 que (water),\cb1 \
\cb3 the to fir\uc0\u383 t \u383 yllables of u\u383 quebaugh.\cb1 \
\cb3 Sweet Butter.\cb1 \
\cb3 Fre\uc0\u383 h butter.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Scots al\uc0\u383 o \u383 ay powdered, for \u383 alt butter;\cb1 \
\cb3 a crumb of butter, for a little bit of\cb1 \
\cb3 butter; a kebbuck (an Er\uc0\u383 e word), for a\cb1 \
\cb3 chee\uc0\u383 e; and crudy butter, for curds and butter.\cb1 \
\cb3 Crudy butter is a kind of chee\uc0\u383 e, only\cb1 \
\cb3 made by the Scots, who\uc0\u383 e curds being generally\cb1 \
\cb3 of a poorer quality than the Engli\uc0\u383 h,\cb1 \
\cb3 they mix it with butter to enrich it.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ream, (\uc0\u383 till u\u383 ed in Lanca\u383 hire, as well as\cb1 \
\cb3 in \uc0\u383 ome parts of Scotland, for)\cb1 \
\cb3 Cream.\cb1 \
\cb3 The following is a \uc0\u383 tate of the difference between\cb1 \
\cb3 the Scotch and Engli\uc0\u383 h liquid mea\u383 ures.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 A Scotch mutchkin, makes\cb1 \
\cb3 An Engli\uc0\u383 h pint.\cb1 \
\cb3 A chopin.\cb1 \
\cb3 A quart.\cb1 \
\cb3 A pint.\cb1 \
\cb3 Two quarts.\cb1 \
\cb3 A quart.\cb1 \
\cb3 A gallon.\cb1 \
\cb3 Chopin, is derived from the French chopine.\cb1 \
\cb3 It is a meaure\cb1 \
\cb3 now confined to\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotland, though formerly known in England.\cb1 \
\cb3 Stoop, \uc0\u383 tands in the fame predicament.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 The following Tables will explain the\cb1 \
\cb3 difference between the Scotch and Engli\uc0\u383 h\cb1 \
\cb3 mea\uc0\u383 ures regarding grain and land.\cb1 \
\cb3 TABLE I.\cb1 \
\cb3 For reducing the Engli\uc0\u383 h Bu\u383 hels, or Quarters, to\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotch Mea\uc0\u383 ure, according to the Edinburgh\cb1 \
\cb3 Standards.\cb1 \
\cb3 Note, 4 Bu\uc0\u383 hels make 1 Comb.\cb1 \
\cb3 8 Bu\uc0\u383 hels, or 2 Combs, or 1 Quarter.\cb1 \
\cb3 4 Quarters, 1 Chalder, Enghli\uc0\u383 h mea\u383 ure.\cb1 \
\cb3 And 4 Lippies makes 1 Peck.\cb1 \
\cb3 4 Pecks, 1 Firlot.\cb1 \
\cb3 4 Firlots, 1 Boll.\cb1 \
\cb3 16 Bolls., 1 Chalder, Scots Mea\uc0\u383 ure.\cb1 \
\cb3 TABLE II.\cb1 \
\cb3 For reducing the Price of the Engli\uc0\u383 h Quarter to the\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotch Boll.\cb1 \
\cb3 In England, all Grain is bought and \uc0\u383 old by the Quarter: In Scotland\cb1 \
\cb3 by the Boll. The Scotch Boll varies in its Mea\uc0\u383 ure according to\cb1 \
\cb3 the different Grains; to Boll of Barley and Oats being con\uc0\u383 idered\cb1 \
\cb3 larger than the Boll of Wheat or Pea\uc0\u383 e.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 GAMES and AMUSEMENTS.\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotch. A Trump [trompe, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 Engli\uc0\u383 h. A Jew-harp.\cb1 \
\cb3 A fiddle.\cb1 \
\cb3 A violin.\cb1 \
\cb3 Fiddler, is only applied, in England, to\cb1 \
\cb3 the lowe\uc0\u383 t of the mu\u383 ical tribe; and fiddle,\cb1 \
\cb3 to the in\uc0\u383 truments they play upon.\cb1 \
\cb3 Dams [le jeu des dames, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 Draughts.\cb1 \
\cb3 A pirn (for angling).\cb1 \
\cb3 A wheel.\cb1 \
\cb3 To breed a dog, (better)\cb1 \
\cb3 To break a dog.\cb1 \
\cb3 To ride a hor\uc0\u383 eback, (better)\cb1 \
\cb3 To ride on hor\uc0\u383 eback.\cb1 \
\cb3 The di\uc0\u383 tinition is, to ride a hor\u383 e, but\cb1 \
\cb3 to ride on hor\uc0\u383 eback.\cb1 \
\cb3 Spaud, maul.\cb1 \
\cb3 Spadille, manille.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Scots and Engli\uc0\u383 h often u\u383 e different\cb1 \
\cb3 words and phra\uc0\u383 es at the card-table; as, to\cb1 \
\cb3 trumph (corrupted from triumph), for to\cb1 \
\cb3 trump a card. Fir\uc0\u383 t in hand, for elde\u383 t\cb1 \
\cb3 hand. To play with liberty, for to play\cb1 \
\cb3 with leave. Six cards, for \uc0\u383 ix tricks, &c.\cb1 \
\cb3 &c.\cb1 \
\cb3 Blind Harry.\cb1 \
\cb3 Blindman's buff.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ball.\cb1 \
\cb3 Fives.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 pring.\cb1 \
\cb3 A tune on any mu\uc0\u383 ical in\u383 trument.\cb1 \
\cb3 CLOTHES, DRESS, &c.\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 et any thing.\cb1 \
\cb3 To become any thing well.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ill does it \uc0\u383 et you, al\u383 o, for ill does it become\cb1 \
\cb3 you to do \uc0\u383 uch a thing.\cb1 \
\cb3 To be trig (corrupted from tricked up).\cb1 \
\cb3 To be neat.\cb1 \
\cb3 To clean \uc0\u383 hoes.\cb1 \
\cb3 To wipe, or black \uc0\u383 hoes.\cb1 \
\cb3 A barber, (\uc0\u383 ometimes for)\cb1 \
\cb3 A hairdre\uc0\u383 \u383 er.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 watch (from \u383 wath).\cb1 \
\cb3 A pattern, or piece for a \uc0\u383 ample.\cb1 \
\cb3 A wrought wai\uc0\u383 tcoat, gown, &c.\cb1 \
\cb3 A worked wai\uc0\u383 tcoat, &c.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 ewedgown, &c.\cb1 \
\cb3 A worked gown, &c.\cb1 \
\cb3 The di\uc0\u383 tinction is, to \u383 ew with a needle,\cb1 \
\cb3 but to work in the tambour.\cb1 \
\cb3 A hand\uc0\u383 ome coat.\cb1 \
\cb3 A handfome \uc0\u383 uit of clothes.\cb1 \
\cb3 The neck, or neckpiece of a coat.\cb1 \
\cb3 The cape, or collar of a coat.\cb1 \
\cb3 Riding clothes.\cb1 \
\cb3 Riding habit.\cb1 \
\cb3 A big-coat.\cb1 \
\cb3 A great-coat, or \uc0\u383 urtout.\cb1 \
\cb3 A cloth-bru\uc0\u383 h.\cb1 \
\cb3 A clothes-brush.\cb1 \
\cb3 A cloth-bru\uc0\u383 h, would properly be one\cb1 \
\cb3 made of cloth.\cb1 \
\cb3 A towel.\cb1 \
\cb3 A napkin.\cb1 \
\cb3 Towels are u\uc0\u383 ed in a chamber; napkins,\cb1 \
\cb3 as tea-napkins, at table.\cb1 \
\cb3 A napkin.\cb1 \
\cb3 A handkerchief.\cb1 \
\cb3 Napkin, for handkerchief; is u\uc0\u383 ed by\cb1 \
\cb3 Shake\uc0\u383 pear (Othello, Act Ill. Scene 7),\cb1 \
\cb3 and is \uc0\u383 till current in the North of England,\cb1 \
\cb3 particularly about Sheffield. Vide Warner's\cb1 \
\cb3 Letter to Garrick, p. 35.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 ervite [\u383 erviette, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 A table napkin.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 ervice of linen [French].\cb1 \
\cb3 A complete \uc0\u383 et of linen.\cb1 \
\cb3 Napery [naperia, Italian].\cb1 \
\cb3 Table linen.\cb1 \
\cb3 Mittens [mitaines, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 Woollen gloves.\cb1 \
\cb3 Mittens, in England, at pre\uc0\u383 ent, are under\u383 tood\cb1 \
\cb3 to be gloves without fingers.\cb1 \
\cb3 Striped \uc0\u383 tockings.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ribbed \uc0\u383 tockings.\cb1 \
\cb3 Stripped \uc0\u383 tockings would properly be variegated\cb1 \
\cb3 with lines of different colours.\cb1 \
\cb3 Tartan [perhaps from tarote, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 Highland plaid.\cb1 \
\cb3 A philibeg [Er\uc0\u383 e].\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 hort, or little petticoat.\cb1 \
\cb3 A durk [Er\uc0\u383 e].\cb1 \
\cb3 A dagger, or poniard.\cb1 \
\cb3 TOWNS.\cb1 \
\cb3 A wind.\cb1 \
\cb3 A lane.\cb1 \
\cb3 Edinburgh and Stirling, two of the principal\cb1 \
\cb3 towns in Scotland, are \uc0\u383 ituated on\cb1 \
\cb3 hills, with one wide \uc0\u383 treet, and many narrow\cb1 \
\cb3 lanes, leading from thence down the\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 ides of the hills; which lanes, from their\cb1 \
\cb3 being generally winding, and not \uc0\u383 traight,\cb1 \
\cb3 are called winds.\cb1 \
\cb3 A clo\uc0\u383 s.\cb1 \
\cb3 A court, \uc0\u383 quare, or alley.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. The Parliament Clo\uc0\u383 s at Edinburgh,\cb1 \
\cb3 which is properly a \uc0\u383 quare, and is now begun\cb1 \
\cb3 to be called \uc0\u383 o, The name of clo\u383 s, is\cb1 \
\cb3 improperly given to any place which is not\cb1 \
\cb3 almo\uc0\u383 t altogether \u383 hut up, which Edinburgh\cb1 \
\cb3 alleys \uc0\u383 eldom are.\cb1 \
\cb3 Up \uc0\u383 treets.\cb1 \
\cb3 Up a \uc0\u383 treet, or the \u383 treet.\cb1 \
\cb3 The head or foot of a \uc0\u383 treet.\cb1 \
\cb3 The top or bottom of a \uc0\u383 treet.\cb1 \
\cb3 The right or left \uc0\u383 ide of a \u383 treet.\cb1 \
\cb3 The right or left-hand \uc0\u383 ide of a \u383 treet.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 treet has no right or left \u383 ide of its\cb1 \
\cb3 own, but as it refers to the right or left--\cb1 \
\cb3 hand of any particular per\uc0\u383 on.\cb1 \
\cb3 Number fir\uc0\u383 t, \u383 econd, third, fourth, &c. of\cb1 \
\cb3 a \uc0\u383 treet.\cb1 \
\cb3 Number one, two, three, four, &c. of a\cb1 \
\cb3 ftreet.\cb1 \
\cb3 In London the hou\uc0\u383 es are in general\cb1 \
\cb3 numbered; and it is not number fir\uc0\u383 t, but\cb1 \
\cb3 number one, that a per\uc0\u383 on \u383 hould inquire\cb1 \
\cb3 after.\cb1 \
\cb3 A college.\cb1 \
\cb3 An univer\uc0\u383 ity.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. Oxford college, for the Univer\uc0\u383 ity of\cb1 \
\cb3 Oxford. An Univer\uc0\u383 ity con\u383 i\u383 ts of many\cb1 \
\cb3 colleges.\cb1 \
\cb3 The other \uc0\u383 ide of the \u383 teet.\cb1 \
\cb3 The other \uc0\u383 ide of the way,\cb1 \
\cb3 The \uc0\u383 treet, is only that part of the way\cb1 \
\cb3 which is allotted for carriages. The term\cb1 \
\cb3 way, includes al\uc0\u383 o the pavements for foot--\cb1 \
\cb3 pa\uc0\u383 \u383 engers on both \u383 ides of the \u383 treet.\cb1 \
\cb3 Plain-\uc0\u383 tones.\cb1 \
\cb3 Pavement.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. A plain-\uc0\u383 tone clo\u383 s , for a paved alley.\cb1 \
\cb3 HOUSES.\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 et a hou\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 To let a hou\uc0\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Scots al\uc0\u383 o \u383 ay, to \u383 et a farm, garden,\cb1 \
\cb3 &c.\cb1 \
\cb3 To lodge in a hou\uc0\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 To dwell, or live in a hou\uc0\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 tay in a hou\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 To re\uc0\u383 ide in a hou\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 To red up a room.\cb1 \
\cb3 To put a room in order.\cb1 \
\cb3 Red is probably derived either from reddere,\cb1 \
\cb3 Latin, to re\uc0\u383 tore, from its being re\u383 tored\cb1 \
\cb3 to its former order; or from the verb\cb1 \
\cb3 to rid, becau\uc0\u383 e it mu\u383 t be rid or freed from\cb1 \
\cb3 unnece\uc0\u383 \u383 ary incumbrances.\cb1 \
\cb3 A well-aired hou\uc0\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 A hou\uc0\u383 e in an airy \u383 ituation.\cb1 \
\cb3 A well-aired hou\uc0\u383 e, is properly one free\cb1 \
\cb3 from damps within, and not a hou\uc0\u383 e in a\cb1 \
\cb3 high and airy \uc0\u383 ituation, and con\u383 equently\cb1 \
\cb3 enjoying good air without, which is the\cb1 \
\cb3 meaning of the Scotti\uc0\u383 h idiom.\cb1 \
\cb3 A hou\uc0\u383 e within it\u383 elf (better)\cb1 \
\cb3 A hou\uc0\u383 e by it\u383 elf,\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 clated hou\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 lated hou\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Scots \uc0\u383 pell and pronounce \u383 late,\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 clate, nearer the original French word\cb1 \
\cb3 e\uc0\u383 clate, a tile, than the Engli\u383 h edition of\cb1 \
\cb3 it.\cb1 \
\cb3 A turnpike-:\uc0\u383 tair [perhaps from tourniquet, French].\cb1 \
\cb3 A well, or winding \uc0\u383 tairca\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 Turnpike-\uc0\u383 tairs, \u383 ays Mr. Arnot, are built\cb1 \
\cb3 in a \uc0\u383 piral form; \u383 cale-\u383 tairs, have \u383 traight\cb1 \
\cb3 flights of \uc0\u383 teps. Hi\u383 tory of Edinburgh,\cb1 \
\cb3 p. 246.\cb1 \
\cb3 A tran\uc0\u383 e [tran\u383 itus, Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 A pa\uc0\u383 \u383 age from a \u383 tairca\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 Fire-rooms.\cb1 \
\cb3 Rooms with a fire-place.\cb1 \
\cb3 A bunker.\cb1 \
\cb3 A window-\uc0\u383 eat.\cb1 \
\cb3 A chimney-piece, (more elegantly)\cb1 \
\cb3 A mantle-piece.\cb1 \
\cb3 The jaum of a door [jambe, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 The \uc0\u383 ide-po\u383 t.\cb1 \
\cb3 The roof of a room.\cb1 \
\cb3 The cieling.\cb1 \
\cb3 Boxing.\cb1 \
\cb3 Wain\uc0\u383 cotting.\cb1 \
\cb3 A change-hou\uc0\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 An ale-hou\uc0\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 A public-hou\uc0\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 An inn, a tavern, or hotel.\cb1 \
\cb3 In England, public-hou\uc0\u383 es are kept by\cb1 \
\cb3 the inferior, and not better, kind of publicans.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 mithy, (an old Engli\u383 h word for)\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 mith's hou\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 A ducat (corrupted from dovecot).\cb1 \
\cb3 A pigeon-hou\uc0\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 A reeky hou\uc0\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 moky houfe.\cb1 \
\cb3 Reek is an old Engli\uc0\u383 h word for \u383 moke,\cb1 \
\cb3 FURNITURE, &c.\cb1 \
\cb3 A kitchen.\cb1 \
\cb3 A tea-urn, or va\uc0\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 It is improper to give one word (kitchen)\cb1 \
\cb3 two meanings, when there are other words\cb1 \
\cb3 that expre\uc0\u383 s one of the \u383 en\u383 es equally well,\cb1 \
\cb3 and are confined to that alone.\cb1 \
\cb3 A tray.\cb1 \
\cb3 A waiter, or tea-board.\cb1 \
\cb3 Trays are made of common wood, and\cb1 \
\cb3 are calculated to carry victuals, &c. Waiters\cb1 \
\cb3 and tea-boards are either made of japaned\cb1 \
\cb3 ware, or of the fine\uc0\u383 t kinds of wood,\cb1 \
\cb3 or \uc0\u383 omctimes of \u383 ilver.\cb1 \
\cb3 The plate.\cb1 \
\cb3 The di\uc0\u383 h.\cb1 \
\cb3 Plates are only for eating out of.\cb1 \
\cb3 A deep plate.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 oup-plate.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 lap-ba\u383 on.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 lop-ba\u383 on.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 ugar-bowl.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 ugar-di\u383 h.\cb1 \
\cb3 A bowl.\cb1 \
\cb3 A ba\uc0\u383 on, or ba\u383 in.\cb1 \
\cb3 Bowls never hold le\uc0\u383 s than a Scotch\cb1 \
\cb3 mutchkin, or Engli\uc0\u383 h pint. Ba\u383 ons. are\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 maller bowls.\cb1 \
\cb3 A brander [Runic].\cb1 \
\cb3 A gridiron, or grateiron.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Scots al\uc0\u383 o \u383 ay to brander, for to broil\cb1 \
\cb3 meat.\cb1 \
\cb3 A be\uc0\u383 om [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 mall bru\u383 h.\cb1 \
\cb3 Be\uc0\u383 om may be found in I\u383 aiah, xiv. 22.\cb1 \
\cb3 and in Bacon.\cb1 \
\cb3 A chimney.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 tove, or grate.\cb1 \
\cb3 The chimney, is properly the whole fireplace.\cb1 \
\cb3 The \uc0\u383 tove or grate, that part of it\cb1 \
\cb3 in which the fire is contained.\cb1 \
\cb3 A grate.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 tove.\cb1 \
\cb3 Nothing are called grates in England\cb1 \
\cb3 but fixed ones, \uc0\u383 uch as the laundry and\cb1 \
\cb3 kitchen grates.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 hake-do wn.\cb1 \
\cb3 Bed-clothes \uc0\u383 pread upon the floor.\cb1 \
\cb3 A bow\uc0\u383 ter (corrupted from)\cb1 \
\cb3 Bol\uc0\u383 ter.\cb1 \
\cb3 A cod [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 A pillow.\cb1 \
\cb3 Pincod is al\uc0\u383 o fometimes u\u383 ed for pincu\u383 hion.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 A gully.\cb1 \
\cb3 A large hou\uc0\u383 ehold knife.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 hort light.\cb1 \
\cb3 A flat candle\uc0\u383 tick.\cb1 \
\cb3 AGRICULTURE, and the COUNTRY.\cb1 \
\cb3 A laird.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 quire, or lord of a manor.\cb1 \
\cb3 Laird and lord were originally the \uc0\u383 ame.\cb1 \
\cb3 In the Border Laws, publi\uc0\u383 hed by the\cb1 \
\cb3 Bi\uc0\u383 hop of Carli\u383 le, the Earl of Northumberland\cb1 \
\cb3 and the Lord of Galloway\cb1 \
\cb3 are both called lairds. Vide Ruddiman's\cb1 \
\cb3 Glo\uc0\u383 \u383 ary, to Bi\u383 hop Douglas's Virgil, voce\cb1 \
\cb3 lard. Both words are properly derived\cb1 \
\cb3 from the Saxon; but Mi\uc0\u383 \u383 on, in his Travels,\cb1 \
\cb3 Vol. ii, p. 375. pretends that they\cb1 \
\cb3 came from the Hetru\uc0\u383 can language, in\cb1 \
\cb3 which lars, or lartes, \uc0\u383 ignified a lord or\cb1 \
\cb3 prince. Hence he \uc0\u383 ays the Lartes Talumnius,\cb1 \
\cb3 mentioned by Livy, ought to be\cb1 \
\cb3 tranflated Lord Talumnius. A proof, among\cb1 \
\cb3 many others, to what length etymologi\uc0\u383 ts\cb1 \
\cb3 will go.\cb1 \
\cb3 But the real origin of lord, is given us\cb1 \
\cb3 by that valuable Engli\uc0\u383 h antiquarian Richard\cb1 \
\cb3 Ver\uc0\u383 tegan; who informs us, that lord\cb1 \
\cb3 was originally written laford; and as laf,\cb1 \
\cb3 from whence loaf is derived, \uc0\u383 ignified bread,\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 o laford, was properly an afforder of bread,.\cb1 \
\cb3 or a bread-giver. An honourable appellation\cb1 \
\cb3 in tho\uc0\u383 e days of unbounded ho\u383 pitality.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Lady, al\uc0\u383 o, was originally written leafdian,\cb1 \
\cb3 afterwards lafdian, lafdy, and ultimately lady,\cb1 \
\cb3 which, in the Saxon, \uc0\u383 ignificd bread-\u383 erver,\cb1 \
\cb3 that is, the per\uc0\u383 o n who di\u383 t ributed, or portioned\cb1 \
\cb3 out the food among the gue\uc0\u383 ts. And hence, \u383 ay-s\cb1 \
\cb3 Ver\uc0\u383 tegan, aro\u383 e the ancient cu\u383 tom of the\cb1 \
\cb3 lady of the hou\uc0\u383 e carving the meat, and \u383 erving\cb1 \
\cb3 the gue\uc0\u383 ts at table, which, in other countries,\cb1 \
\cb3 is altogether \uc0\u383 trange and unu\u383 ual.\cb1 \
\cb3 Our antiquarian adds a compliment to\cb1 \
\cb3 the lafords and leafdians of his time, which\cb1 \
\cb3 it is hoped their po\uc0\u383 terity will endeavour,\cb1 \
\cb3 like them, to merit. "The nobility of this\cb1 \
\cb3 "i\uc0\u383 land (he \u383 ays) are really intitled to the\cb1 \
\cb3 "Saxon names by which they are di\uc0\u383 tingui\u383 h"ed,\cb1 \
\cb3 having always \uc0\u383 hown them\u383 elves \u383 upe"rior\cb1 \
\cb3 to tho\uc0\u383 e on the continent, inho\u383 pitality\cb1 \
\cb3 "to \uc0\u383 trangers, and liberality to the poor."\cb1 \
\cb3 It ought al\uc0\u383 o to be ob\u383 erved, that it was\cb1 \
\cb3 formerly a cu\uc0\u383 tom in Scotland to call the\cb1 \
\cb3 wife of a laird a lady, by the name of his\cb1 \
\cb3 e\uc0\u383 tate; and the elde\u383 t \u383 on of a peer, where\cb1 \
\cb3 there was no \uc0\u383 econd title in the family, by\cb1 \
\cb3 the name of, the ma\uc0\u383 ter of \u383 uch a thing.\cb1 \
\cb3 But both tho\uc0\u383 e cu\u383 toms are now exploded.\cb1 \
\cb3 An heritor, (abbreviated from inheritor)\cb1 \
\cb3 A proprietor.\cb1 \
\cb3 A tack\uc0\u383 man.\cb1 \
\cb3 A lea\uc0\u383 eholder, tenant, or farmer.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Scots pronounce the word take, tak',\cb1 \
\cb3 hence they call a farm a tack, and a great\cb1 \
\cb3 farmer, a tack\uc0\u383 man.\cb1 \
\cb3 A cotter, or \uc0\u383 ub-tenant.\cb1 \
\cb3 A cottager.\cb1 \
\cb3 Cottier may be found in old Engli\uc0\u383 h\cb1 \
\cb3 Dictionaries, but cottager at pre\uc0\u383 ent is only\cb1 \
\cb3 made u\uc0\u383 e of.\cb1 \
\cb3 A grieve [Belgic].\cb1 \
\cb3 An over\uc0\u383 eer, or bailiff.\cb1 \
\cb3 Grieve is derived from grave, which, in\cb1 \
\cb3 the Belgic, \uc0\u383 ignifies pr\'e6fectus; hence comes\cb1 \
\cb3 the German words landgrave, and margrave.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 A carter, (more commonly)\cb1 \
\cb3 A carman.\cb1 \
\cb3 Some make this di\uc0\u383 tinction, carters in the\cb1 \
\cb3 country, but carmen in London.\cb1 \
\cb3 A dey.\cb1 \
\cb3 A dairy-maid.\cb1 \
\cb3 Dey, is an old Engli\uc0\u383 h word for milk\cb1 \
\cb3 (vide John\uc0\u383 on's Dictionary, voce dairy),\cb1 \
\cb3 and a dey, perhaps, might fignify a dairy--\cb1 \
\cb3 maid; but the only deys at pre\uc0\u383 ent heard of\cb1 \
\cb3 in England, are tho\uc0\u383 e of Tunis and Algiers.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 A herd.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 hepherd, a cowherd.\cb1 \
\cb3 In Scotland, and anciently in England,\cb1 \
\cb3 a herd was a keeper of cattle; but now it is\cb1 \
\cb3 made u\uc0\u383 e of by the Engli\u383 h, only for the\cb1 \
\cb3 flock he keeps. Nay, Allan Ram\uc0\u383 ay calls the\cb1 \
\cb3 hero of his Pa\uc0\u383 toral, the Gentle (that is, not\cb1 \
\cb3 the meek, but the high-born) Shepherd,\cb1 \
\cb3 thinking herd, too vulgar an expre\uc0\u383 \u383 ion.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 hearer of corn.\cb1 \
\cb3 A reaper.\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 hear corn, is al\u383 o improperly made\cb1 \
\cb3 u\uc0\u383 e of in the north of England, as well as\cb1 \
\cb3 in Scotland, for to reap corn. Shearing,\cb1 \
\cb3 can only be done with \uc0\u383 hears, or \u383 ci\u383 \u383 ars,\cb1 \
\cb3 whereas corn is cut down, or reaped, by the\cb1 \
\cb3 hook, the \uc0\u383 ickle, or the \u383 cythe.\cb1 \
\cb3 A hook, (better)\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 ickle, or reaping-hook.\cb1 \
\cb3 To kirn butter.\cb1 \
\cb3 To churn butter.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ky, or kine [Belgic].\cb1 \
\cb3 Cows.\cb1 \
\cb3 From ky, the Scots have al\uc0\u383 o formed quey,\cb1 \
\cb3 and queyock.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 tot, or \u383 toat [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 A young bullock.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 tirk (in Lanca\u383 hire, \u383 turk).\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 teer, or heifer.\cb1 \
\cb3 A gaut (as, a mill gaut).\cb1 \
\cb3 A hog, a \uc0\u383 ow.\cb1 \
\cb3 A hog.\cb1 \
\cb3 A young \uc0\u383 heep.\cb1 \
\cb3 Even in York\uc0\u383 hire, and Northampton\u383 hire,\cb1 \
\cb3 a \uc0\u383 heep of a year old is called a hog.\cb1 \
\cb3 A grice (an old Engli\uc0\u383 h word for)\cb1 \
\cb3 A little pig.\cb1 \
\cb3 A croft [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 mall farm.\cb1 \
\cb3 In England, a croft only means a \uc0\u383 mall\cb1 \
\cb3 pa\uc0\u383 ture, near a cottage.\cb1 \
\cb3 A labouring.\cb1 \
\cb3 A farm.\cb1 \
\cb3 To labour well, they al\uc0\u383 o u\u383 e in Scotland,\cb1 \
\cb3 for to farm well.\cb1 \
\cb3 A maling.\cb1 \
\cb3 A little farm, or landed property.\cb1 \
\cb3 Maling comes from mail, in con\uc0\u383 equence\cb1 \
\cb3 of rents being originally paid in mails or bags;\cb1 \
\cb3 mails and duties, al\uc0\u383 o, a common phra\u383 e in\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotland for rents, is derived, as is generally\cb1 \
\cb3 imagined, from maille, a bag, and d\'fb, the\cb1 \
\cb3 participle of devoir. Bi\uc0\u383 hop Fleetwood, at\cb1 \
\cb3 the \uc0\u383 ame time, affirms (Pref. to Chron. Prec.),\cb1 \
\cb3 that mails was an old Engli\uc0\u383 h word for\cb1 \
\cb3 halfpence. It appears, from the \uc0\u383 ame learned\cb1 \
\cb3 writer (p. 5o, 51.), that the Scotch\cb1 \
\cb3 mode of dividing a farm into \uc0\u383 o many\cb1 \
\cb3 pennylands, halfpennylands, and farthinglands,\cb1 \
\cb3 was formerly known in England; nor\cb1 \
\cb3 was a penny \uc0\u383 o de\u383 picable a rent for a little\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 pace of ground, at a time when one penny,\cb1 \
\cb3 as the bi\uc0\u383 hop informs us, would purcha\u383 e a\cb1 \
\cb3 ram, and twelve pence an ox, p. 43.\cb1 \
\cb3 A mains.\cb1 \
\cb3 Lands near a man\uc0\u383 ion-hou\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 Mains, is either a contraction of domains,\cb1 \
\cb3 or derived from maneo, in the \uc0\u383 ame\cb1 \
\cb3 manner as man\uc0\u383 e and manor.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 tocking.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 tock for a farm.\cb1 \
\cb3 Good wintering.\cb1 \
\cb3 Good Winter's provi\uc0\u383 ion.\cb1 \
\cb3 Provi\uc0\u383 ion for cattle, in the Winter \u383 ea\u383 on,\cb1 \
\cb3 being \uc0\u383 eldom in great plenty or abundance\cb1 \
\cb3 in Scotland, whil\uc0\u383 t the Scots were indifferent\cb1 \
\cb3 farmers, it occasioned the formation\cb1 \
\cb3 of a particular word (wintering) to\cb1 \
\cb3 expre\uc0\u383 s its \u383 carcity or abundance.\cb1 \
\cb3 Fodder is plenty.\cb1 \
\cb3 Fodder is plentiful, or abundant.\cb1 \
\cb3 There is no \uc0\u383 uch adjective as plenty.\cb1 \
\cb3 Fogage [fogagium, Low Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 Aftermath, or aftergra\uc0\u383 s.\cb1 \
\cb3 Fogage, is properly the gra\uc0\u383 s that has\cb1 \
\cb3 grown after the hay has been made. In\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 ome counties in England it is called er\u383 h,\cb1 \
\cb3 or eddi\uc0\u383 h; and in Su\u383 \u383 ex gratton. The\cb1 \
\cb3 Engli\uc0\u383 h, at the \u383 ame time, \u383 ay a fog, for a\cb1 \
\cb3 gra\uc0\u383 s lamb.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 took of corn (old Engli\u383 h, for)\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 hock of corn.\cb1 \
\cb3 Farm.\cb1 \
\cb3 Rent in grain.\cb1 \
\cb3 Feorme, the Saxon primitive word, whence\cb1 \
\cb3 farm is derived, \uc0\u383 ignified food, or provi\u383 ion.\cb1 \
\cb3 Black. Com. Vol. ii. p. 318. And\cb1 \
\cb3 as rents in Scotland were originally paid in\cb1 \
\cb3 kind, and from arable grounds, con\uc0\u383 equently\cb1 \
\cb3 in grain; hence rent paid in grain,\cb1 \
\cb3 came to be called farm; and in tho\uc0\u383 e primitive\cb1 \
\cb3 days of ho\uc0\u383 pitality, were all made\cb1 \
\cb3 u\uc0\u383 e of as feorme, or provi\u383 ions for the \u383 u\u383 tenance\cb1 \
\cb3 of the proprietor's family.\cb1 \
\cb3 A gra\uc0\u383 \u383 um.\cb1 \
\cb3 A fine.\cb1 \
\cb3 Rents, in Scotland, were at fir\uc0\u383 t paid for\cb1 \
\cb3 the arable lands only; but when gra\uc0\u383 s became\cb1 \
\cb3 more valuable in that country, the\cb1 \
\cb3 landlord would naturally in\uc0\u383 i\u383 t upon \u383 ome\cb1 \
\cb3 con\uc0\u383 ideration for the ground in gra\u383 s. The\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotch farmers were fonder of fines, which\cb1 \
\cb3 they imagined was only a temporary burthen,\cb1 \
\cb3 than a perpetual increa\uc0\u383 e of rent, and\cb1 \
\cb3 they were often more convenient for the\cb1 \
\cb3 matter. Fines were therefore paid for the\cb1 \
\cb3 gra\uc0\u383 s grounds, and hence came to be called\cb1 \
\cb3 gra\uc0\u383 \u383 ums.\cb1 \
\cb3 Bear, or big.\cb1 \
\cb3 Barley of inferior quality.\cb1 \
\cb3 Victual.\cb1 \
\cb3 Grain, and \uc0\u383 ometimes oatmeal.\cb1 \
\cb3 Corn.\cb1 \
\cb3 Oats.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Scots al\uc0\u383 o \u383 ay, "the wind and\cb1 \
\cb3 "rain have lodged (laid flat) my corns."\cb1 \
\cb3 Whereas corns are only the hard and painful\cb1 \
\cb3 excre\uc0\u383 cences on the toes. "Corn the\cb1 \
\cb3 "hor\uc0\u383 e," al\u383 o, for give the hor\u383 e a feed of\cb1 \
\cb3 oats, or corn, is not unu\uc0\u383 ual.\cb1 \
\cb3 Draff [Belgic].\cb1 \
\cb3 Grains of malt.\cb1 \
\cb3 Lint [linteum, Latin], generally, in England,\cb1 \
\cb3 called\cb1 \
\cb3 Flax.\cb1 \
\cb3 Briar [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 Young \uc0\u383 hoots of corn.\cb1 \
\cb3 A bee's \uc0\u383 cape [Dani\u383 h].\cb1 \
\cb3 A bee-hive.\cb1 \
\cb3 Scape, or \uc0\u383 caupe, is u\u383 ed for a clu\u383 ter,\cb1 \
\cb3 quantity, or bed of any thing; as a \uc0\u383 caupe,\cb1 \
\cb3 for a bed of oy\uc0\u383 ters, mu\u383 cles, &c. &c.\cb1 \
\cb3 Sceppe, al\uc0\u383 o, according to Bi\u383 hop Fleetwood,\cb1 \
\cb3 Chron. Prec. p. 77. was an old Engli\uc0\u383 h\cb1 \
\cb3 word for bu\uc0\u383 hel.\cb1 \
\cb3 A byre [Er\uc0\u383 e].\cb1 \
\cb3 A cow-hou\uc0\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 Be\uc0\u383 tial (from bea\u383 t).\cb1 \
\cb3 Cattle.\cb1 \
\cb3 Be\uc0\u383 tial is u\u383 ed in England as an adjective,\cb1 \
\cb3 but not as a \uc0\u383 ub\u383 tantive.\cb1 \
\cb3 A bow [Er\uc0\u383 e].\cb1 \
\cb3 A dairy, or herd of cattle.\cb1 \
\cb3 A bow is al\uc0\u383 o made u\u383 e of for a fold,\cb1 \
\cb3 contracted from bought, and perhaps derived\cb1 \
\cb3 from the French boucher, to \uc0\u383 hut up,\cb1 \
\cb3 or inclo\uc0\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 A bothie (from booth).\cb1 \
\cb3 A little cottage.\cb1 \
\cb3 A girnel.\cb1 \
\cb3 A granary.\cb1 \
\cb3 A corf-hou\uc0\u383 e (from coffer)\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 tore-hou\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 A barn -yard, (better)\cb1 \
\cb3 A farm-yard.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 tone-dike, (in England, always)\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 tone wall.\cb1 \
\cb3 Dike, according to Skinner, comes from\cb1 \
\cb3 dig, and con\uc0\u383 equently dikes, like tho\u383 e of\cb1 \
\cb3 Holland, are made of earth, and never of\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 tone. Properly we may dig a dike, but\cb1 \
\cb3 we mu\uc0\u383 t build a wall.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 lap, in a dike.\cb1 \
\cb3 A gap in a wall.\cb1 \
\cb3 A pailing [palus, Latin], u\uc0\u383 ed erroneou\u383 ly for\cb1 \
\cb3 A pali\uc0\u383 ade, or pali\u383 ado.\cb1 \
\cb3 Pailing is \uc0\u383 till u\u383 ed in England, for any\cb1 \
\cb3 common wooden fence.\cb1 \
\cb3 Leys [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 Untilled ground;\cb1 \
\cb3 Or, ground formerly tilled, now in pa\uc0\u383 ture.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 A fur, or fure [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 A furrow.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. A light fur, for a \uc0\u383 hallow furrow.\cb1 \
\cb3 A yoking.\cb1 \
\cb3 A day's ploughing.\cb1 \
\cb3 Faugh [fauve, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 Fallow.\cb1 \
\cb3 A rig [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 A ridge.\cb1 \
\cb3 Chingle, (a word u\uc0\u383 ed in Su\u383 \u383 ex al\u383 o, for)\cb1 \
\cb3 Gravel.\cb1 \
\cb3 Feal (from fewel).\cb1 \
\cb3 Turf.\cb1 \
\cb3 Muck [Belgic].\cb1 \
\cb3 Dung, or manure.\cb1 \
\cb3 Muck is a word now growing out of u\uc0\u383 e,\cb1 \
\cb3 even in the remote\uc0\u383 t parts of England.\cb1 \
\cb3 A midding [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 A dunghill.\cb1 \
\cb3 Midding, \uc0\u383 ays Bi\u383 hop Gib\u383 on (Notes on\cb1 \
\cb3 the Pol. Mid.), is derived from myke, Saxon,\cb1 \
\cb3 for dung, and ding, which \uc0\u383 ignified a heap.\cb1 \
\cb3 Gooding for the land.\cb1 \
\cb3 Manure.\cb1 \
\cb3 A kail-blade.\cb1 \
\cb3 A cabbage-leaf.\cb1 \
\cb3 Kail is derived from cole, a general name for all \uc0\u383 orts of cabbage; and blade, from the\cb1 \
\cb3 French bled, or bl\'e9:\cb1 \
\cb3 A docking.\cb1 \
\cb3 A dock.\cb1 \
\cb3 Whins (from the Wel\uc0\u383 h).\cb1 \
\cb3 Furze.\cb1 \
\cb3 Furze, at lea\uc0\u383 t, is more common in England.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 A Saugh [\uc0\u383 alix, Latin],\cb1 \
\cb3 A willow.\cb1 \
\cb3 A birk [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 A birch.\cb1 \
\cb3 From Birk, Berk\uc0\u383 hire is \u383 aid to have\cb1 \
\cb3 taken its name.\cb1 \
\cb3 Berry, (more commonly)\cb1 \
\cb3 Currant.\cb1 \
\cb3 Al\uc0\u383 o blackberries, for black currants. Black,\cb1 \
\cb3 berries, in England, are a \uc0\u383 pecies of bramble.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Gins, or quens.\cb1 \
\cb3 Blackaroons, Blackcherries.\cb1 \
\cb3 A notion prevails in the North, that the\cb1 \
\cb3 blackcherry was originally brought from\cb1 \
\cb3 Guines in France, and hence its name in\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotland originates.\cb1 \
\cb3 Scrogs [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 Shrubs, or thorns.\cb1 \
\cb3 Policy.\cb1 \
\cb3 Grounds, or plea\uc0\u383 ure-grounds.\cb1 \
\cb3 This \uc0\u383 en\u383 e of the word policy, is probably\cb1 \
\cb3 taken from the French verb policer, to order;\cb1 \
\cb3 as plea\uc0\u383 ure-grounds are kept in better\cb1 \
\cb3 order than other fields.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 head.\cb1 \
\cb3 A field.\cb1 \
\cb3 A park.\cb1 \
\cb3 An inclo\uc0\u383 ure.\cb1 \
\cb3 A park, in England, is properly a large\cb1 \
\cb3 piece of ground inclo\uc0\u383 ed for deer; whereas,\cb1 \
\cb3 in Scotland, it is applied to every \uc0\u383 pecies of\cb1 \
\cb3 inclo\uc0\u383 ure.\cb1 \
\cb3 A pretty lying field.\cb1 \
\cb3 A field with a beautiful \uc0\u383 lope or declivity.\cb1 \
\cb3 A crag, or craig [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 A rock.\cb1 \
\cb3 Mr. Ray \uc0\u383 uppo\u383 es craig to be a Briti\u383 h\cb1 \
\cb3 word.\cb1 \
\cb3 A brae [Er\uc0\u383 e].\cb1 \
\cb3 A bank.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ex. A \uc0\u383 tay brae, for a \u383 teep bank. Brae\cb1 \
\cb3 is al\uc0\u383 o u\u383 ed in a more exten\u383 ive \u383 en\u383 e, \u383 ignifying\cb1 \
\cb3 a large extent of hilly country, as\cb1 \
\cb3 the braes of Mar, and the braes of Athol.\cb1 \
\cb3 The \uc0\u383 houlder of a hill.\cb1 \
\cb3 The ridge of a hill.\cb1 \
\cb3 A glen, or glyn [Er\uc0\u383 e].\cb1 \
\cb3 A dale, or narrow valley:\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 trath [Er\u383 e].\cb1 \
\cb3 A broad valley.\cb1 \
\cb3 A haugh [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 mall meadow in a valley,\cb1 \
\cb3 A know, or knoll, (old Engli\uc0\u383 h, for)\cb1 \
\cb3 A little hill.\cb1 \
\cb3 A Slak [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 A narrow pa\uc0\u383 s between two hills.\cb1 \
\cb3 Bent, (u\uc0\u383 ed by Bacon, for)\cb1 \
\cb3 Ru\uc0\u383 hes, or coar\u383 e gra\u383 s.\cb1 \
\cb3 Links (from ling, an old Engli\uc0\u383 h word, for)\cb1 \
\cb3 Down, heath, or common.\cb1 \
\cb3 A commontie.\cb1 \
\cb3 A common.\cb1 \
\cb3 Adding tie is unncce\uc0\u383 \u383 ary, unle\u383 s as a pun\u383 ter\cb1 \
\cb3 once \uc0\u383 aid, "\u383 ince the ground in que\u383 tion\cb1 \
\cb3 "belongs in property to many, it mu\uc0\u383 t be a\cb1 \
\cb3 "common tie among them." It is \uc0\u383 ingular\cb1 \
\cb3 that links, another word for heath or common,\cb1 \
\cb3 from the manner in which it is pronounced\cb1 \
\cb3 and written by the Scots, \uc0\u383 hould\cb1 \
\cb3 give \uc0\u383 ome additional grounds for \u383 o whim\u383 ical\cb1 \
\cb3 an etymology.\cb1 \
\cb3 Heather.\cb1 \
\cb3 Heath.\cb1 \
\cb3 In the north of England, it is called hadder.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Bracken [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 Fern.\cb1 \
\cb3 Bracken is common in E\uc0\u383 \u383 ex, and other\cb1 \
\cb3 parts of England.\cb1 \
\cb3 A mo\uc0\u383 s (corrupted from mora\u383 s).\cb1 \
\cb3 A bog, or mar\uc0\u383 h.\cb1 \
\cb3 According to the Engli\uc0\u383 h idiom, mo\u383 s is\cb1 \
\cb3 the excre\uc0\u383 cence which grows upon walls\cb1 \
\cb3 and trees, and not the earth of a bog.\cb1 \
\cb3 Peat.\cb1 \
\cb3 Turf.\cb1 \
\cb3 Peat is an old Engli\uc0\u383 h word for turf,\cb1 \
\cb3 dug in pits, whence the name is derived.\cb1 \
\cb3 A burn, or brun [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 tream, or rivulet.\cb1 \
\cb3 Burn was a word common even in the\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 outh of England; hence Sherburn, Milburn,\cb1 \
\cb3 &c. take their name. It originally\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 ignified water \u383 pringing out of the earth;\cb1 \
\cb3 and hence, in Brabant, a well is called a\cb1 \
\cb3 bourn-pit.\cb1 \
\cb3 A water.\cb1 \
\cb3 A river.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Engli\uc0\u383 h never \u383 ay the water of\cb1 \
\cb3 Thames, as the Scots do, the water of\cb1 \
\cb3 Tweed, or the water of Tay.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 peat (from the old Engli\u383 h verb \u383 pet).\cb1 \
\cb3 A flood.\cb1 \
\cb3 A great \uc0\u383 uperabundance of water.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 tank [\u383 tagnum, Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 A pond, or pool.\cb1 \
\cb3 A dub [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 A pool of dirty water.\cb1 \
\cb3 A view.\cb1 \
\cb3 A pro\uc0\u383 pect.\cb1 \
\cb3 Pro\uc0\u383 pect is an indefinite term, and relates\cb1 \
\cb3 to every thing that can be \uc0\u383 een from any\cb1 \
\cb3 particular place. View, properly refers only\cb1 \
\cb3 to one particular object. Ex. There is a\cb1 \
\cb3 delightful pro\uc0\u383 pect from Highgate-Hill of\cb1 \
\cb3 the country about London, and a di\uc0\u383 tinct view\cb1 \
\cb3 from it, of St. Paul's.\cb1 \
\cb3 A glede [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 A kite.\cb1 \
\cb3 Glede may be found in Deut xiv. 13.\cb1 \
\cb3 A corby [gorbeau, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 A raven.\cb1 \
\cb3 A whaap.\cb1 \
\cb3 A curlew.\cb1 \
\cb3 A gawk [Saxon]\cb1 \
\cb3 A cuckow.\cb1 \
\cb3 A mavis [mavis, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 A thru\uc0\u383 h.\cb1 \
\cb3 A laverick, (abbreviated by the Engli\uc0\u383 h into)\cb1 \
\cb3 Lark.\cb1 \
\cb3 I \uc0\u383 hall conclude this chapter with a li\u383 t of\cb1 \
\cb3 TRADES and OCCUPATIONS, which\cb1 \
\cb3 have different names in the Scotch and\cb1 \
\cb3 Engli\uc0\u383 h dialects.\cb1 \
\cb3 A wright.\cb1 \
\cb3 A carpenter.\cb1 \
\cb3 Wright, at pre\uc0\u383 ent, is a general name for\cb1 \
\cb3 timber workmen; hence \uc0\u383 hipwright, wheelwright,\cb1 \
\cb3 &c.; but the Scots, by wrights,\cb1 \
\cb3 mean carpenters; which, Mr. Broke\uc0\u383 by affirms,\cb1 \
\cb3 is \uc0\u383 till the ca\u383 e in the Ea\u383 t Riding of\cb1 \
\cb3 York\uc0\u383 hire.\cb1 \
\cb3 But it may be remarked, that wright\cb1 \
\cb3 originally \uc0\u383 ignified labouring man, and\cb1 \
\cb3 was not confined to artificers in wood,\cb1 \
\cb3 which is \uc0\u383 uppo\u383 ed to be the ca\u383 e at pre\u383 ent.\cb1 \
\cb3 And that \uc0\u383 mith, \u383 tood the Saxons in the\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 ame \u383 tead, as faber did the Romans; for\cb1 \
\cb3 as they had their faber lignarius, and faber\cb1 \
\cb3 ferrarius, \uc0\u383 o the Saxons had their wood\u383 mith\cb1 \
\cb3 (now called wright, or carpenter),\cb1 \
\cb3 their iron\uc0\u383 mith, and their arrow\u383 mith *, or\cb1 \
\cb3 maker of arrows. Indeed, as timber-workmen\cb1 \
\cb3 are obliged to \uc0\u383 mite with their hammers,\cb1 \
\cb3 as well as artificers in iron, the name\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 mith, which comes from \u383 mite, might,\cb1 \
\cb3 with the \uc0\u383 ame propriety, be applied to the\cb1 \
\cb3 former, as to the latter.\cb1 \
\cb3 Hence al\uc0\u383 o, a \u383 pecious and plau\u383 ible rea\u383 on\cb1 \
\cb3 may be a\uc0\u383 \u383 igned for the great preva*\cb1 \
\cb3 Arrow\uc0\u383 mith is the name of a family in the\cb1 \
\cb3 neighbourhood of Worce\uc0\u383 ter, who certainly took\cb1 \
\cb3 their name from a profe\uc0\u383 \u383 ion of the fir\u383 t importance,\cb1 \
\cb3 when the archers or bowmen of England were the\cb1 \
\cb3 conquerors of France, and the terror of Europe.\cb1 \
\cb3 lence of \uc0\u383 mith over every other \u383 urname. For\cb1 \
\cb3 taylor, turner, miller, &c. were names by\cb1 \
\cb3 which only one particular handicraft trade\cb1 \
\cb3 was di\uc0\u383 tingui\u383 hed; whereas \u383 mith, was a\cb1 \
\cb3 word by which two very common occupations\cb1 \
\cb3 were jointly denominated.\cb1 \
\cb3 A baxter, (an old Engli\uc0\u383 h word for)\cb1 \
\cb3 Baker.\cb1 \
\cb3 A web\uc0\u383 ter, (formerly u\u383 ed in England for)\cb1 \
\cb3 Weaver.\cb1 \
\cb3 A dy\uc0\u383 ter.\cb1 \
\cb3 A dier.\cb1 \
\cb3 Butt malt\uc0\u383 ter, &c. is good Engli\u383 h.\cb1 \
\cb3 A brow\uc0\u383 ter (qua\u383 i brew\u383 ter).\cb1 \
\cb3 A brewer.\cb1 \
\cb3 A brou\uc0\u383 t, is al\u383 o made u\u383 e of, for a\cb1 \
\cb3 brewing.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 outar [\u383 utor, Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 hoemaker.\cb1 \
\cb3 A cordiner [cordonnier, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 A cordwainer, or \uc0\u383 hoemaker.\cb1 \
\cb3 A whiteiron \uc0\u383 mith.\cb1 \
\cb3 A tinman.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Scots al\uc0\u383 o \u383 ay whiteiron, for tin. In\cb1 \
\cb3 Su\uc0\u383 \u383 ex, tinmen are called white\u383 miths.\cb1 \
\cb3 A heckler [Belgic].\cb1 \
\cb3 A flaxdre\uc0\u383 \u383 er.\cb1 \
\cb3 At lea\uc0\u383 t flaxdre\u383 \u383 er is preferable.\cb1 \
\cb3 A trade\uc0\u383 man, it may be ob\u383 erved, in Scotland,\cb1 \
\cb3 implies one who works with his hands\cb1 \
\cb3 at any handicraft trade; whereas in England,\cb1 \
\cb3 it means a \uc0\u383 hopkeeper, whether he\cb1 \
\cb3 works him\uc0\u383 elf or not.\cb1 \
\cb3 CHAP. IV.\cb1 \
\cb3 Legal, and clerical words and phra\uc0\u383 es.\cb1 \
\cb3 THE Scotch and Engli\uc0\u383 h \u383 y\u383 tems of\cb1 \
\cb3 juri\uc0\u383 prudence, at one period, were\cb1 \
\cb3 nearly the \uc0\u383 ame. Our mo\u383 t ancient lawbook,\cb1 \
\cb3 the Regiam Maje\uc0\u383 tatem, and Glanville's\cb1 \
\cb3 Treati\uc0\u383 e on the Laws of England,\cb1 \
\cb3 may be compared to different editions of\cb1 \
\cb3 the \uc0\u383 ame work. It is well known with\cb1 \
\cb3 what zeal many Scotch antiquarians have\cb1 \
\cb3 contended for the originality of the Regiam\cb1 \
\cb3 Maje\uc0\u383 tatem, and how vehemently the Engli\u383 h\cb1 \
\cb3 have a\uc0\u383 \u383 erted, that it was only a \u383 ervile\cb1 \
\cb3 imitation of their countryman's performance\cb1 \
\cb3 *. It is dangerous to engage in\cb1 \
\cb3 a conte\uc0\u383 t,\cb1 \
\cb3 * As to the controver\uc0\u383 y regarding the authenticity\cb1 \
\cb3 of the Reginam Maje\uc0\u383 tatem, the reader may con\u383 ult\cb1 \
\cb3 a conte\uc0\u383 t, into which two nations have entered\cb1 \
\cb3 with as much eagerne\uc0\u383 s, as if the honour\cb1 \
\cb3 of their re\uc0\u383 pective countries depended\cb1 \
\cb3 upon that \uc0\u383 ingle point. I \u383 hall wave that\cb1 \
\cb3 mu\uc0\u383 ty controver\u383 y; and, in\u383 tead of making\cb1 \
\cb3 fruitle\uc0\u383 s inquiries into the ancient connexion\cb1 \
\cb3 between the laws of England and Scotland,\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 hall endeavour to prove, in as few words\cb1 \
\cb3 as po\uc0\u383 \u383 ible, the wi\u383 dom and policy of incorporating\cb1 \
\cb3 our laws together, and of dige\uc0\u383 ting\cb1 \
\cb3 them into one complete and regular\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 y\u383 tem.\cb1 \
\cb3 Lord Bacon, with who\uc0\u383 e admirable works\cb1 \
\cb3 the lawyer, the divine, the \uc0\u383 tate\u383 man, the\cb1 \
\cb3 hi\uc0\u383 torian, and the philo\u383 opher, ought to be\cb1 \
\cb3 M'Doual of Bankton's In\uc0\u383 titutes, Vol. i. Book I.\cb1 \
\cb3 Tit. I. in defence of that work. And, on the other\cb1 \
\cb3 hand, Craig de Feudis, Lib. I. 8. \'a7 II. Lord Lyttelton's\cb1 \
\cb3 Hi\uc0\u383 tory of Henry the Second, Vol. iii. p. 209.\cb1 \
\cb3 and Lord Hailes's Fir\uc0\u383 t E\u383 \u383 ay on \u383 everal Subjects relating\cb1 \
\cb3 to Briti\uc0\u383 h Antiquities.\cb1 \
\cb3 equally conver\uc0\u383 ant, has not omitted this\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 ubject, among his political di\u383 qui\u383 itions\cb1 \
\cb3 and the rea\uc0\u383 ons he a\u383 \u383 igns for compo\u383 ing a\cb1 \
\cb3 Briti\uc0\u383 h Code, are not le\u383 s applicable to the\cb1 \
\cb3 pre\uc0\u383 ent, than they were to his own times.\cb1 \
\cb3 They are contained in his Speech concerning\cb1 \
\cb3 the Union of Laws, and in his excellent\cb1 \
\cb3 Ob\uc0\u383 ervations concerning the Union between\cb1 \
\cb3 England and Scotland.\cb1 \
\cb3 In the fir\uc0\u383 t place, it is certain, that the\cb1 \
\cb3 forming of \uc0\u383 uch a code would be attended\cb1 \
\cb3 with the happy con\uc0\u383 equence of having the\cb1 \
\cb3 laws of both nations revi\uc0\u383 ed and dige\u383 ted;\cb1 \
\cb3 a work, which the number and verbo\uc0\u383 ity\cb1 \
\cb3 of our Briti\uc0\u383 h Statutes renders daily more\cb1 \
\cb3 nece\uc0\u383 \u383 ary. The Scotch law-books are of\cb1 \
\cb3 an immen\uc0\u383 e magnitude, an onus multorum\cb1 \
\cb3 camelorum, but nothing in compari\uc0\u383 on of\cb1 \
\cb3 the number which the Barri\uc0\u383 ters of England\cb1 \
\cb3 mu\uc0\u383 t peru\u383 e; an abridgment of who\u383 e\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 y\u383 tem of juri\u383 prudence has been \u383 eriou\u383 ly\cb1 \
\cb3 offered to the public in no le\uc0\u383 s than four and\cb1 \
\cb3 twenty volumes folio. Such a heaping up of\cb1 \
\cb3 laws, without ob\uc0\u383 erving much order or arrangement,\cb1 \
\cb3 may increa\uc0\u383 e the bu\u383 ine\u383 s of the\cb1 \
\cb3 bar from the confu\uc0\u383 ion and uncertainty it\cb1 \
\cb3 occasions; but every one mu\uc0\u383 t perceive,\cb1 \
\cb3 that it is equally di\uc0\u383 graceful to the \u383 tate,\cb1 \
\cb3 and ruinous to the people.\cb1 \
\cb3 Since the principles of the laws of England\cb1 \
\cb3 and Scotland were originally the \uc0\u383 ame,\cb1 \
\cb3 the reducing them into one complete and\cb1 \
\cb3 regular \uc0\u383 y\u383 tem cannot be a work of un\u383 urmountable\cb1 \
\cb3 labour and difficulty: Nor would\cb1 \
\cb3 such an attempt meet with tho\uc0\u383 e ob\u383 tructions\cb1 \
\cb3 which might be expected, had there\cb1 \
\cb3 never had been any connexion or re\uc0\u383 emblance\cb1 \
\cb3 between the two codes. And if\cb1 \
\cb3 once our laws were again united, it is improbable,\cb1 \
\cb3 whil\uc0\u383 t our King and Parliament\cb1 \
\cb3 remained the \uc0\u383 ame, that any material difference\cb1 \
\cb3 would be permitted. We \uc0\u383 hould\cb1 \
\cb3 then lie under the \uc0\u383 ame yoke, as Bacon ob\u383 erves;\cb1 \
\cb3 our union and connexion with each\cb1 \
\cb3 other would be \uc0\u383 trengthened and confirmed,\cb1 \
\cb3 and in \uc0\u383 ucceeding ages, any di\u383 cord or \u383 eparation\cb1 \
\cb3 between the two nations would\cb1 \
\cb3 probably be prevented.\cb1 \
\cb3 Indeed, when it is con\uc0\u383 idered, that an\cb1 \
\cb3 abridgment of the laws of England was\cb1 \
\cb3 recommended to Parliament almo\uc0\u383 t two\cb1 \
\cb3 centuries ago, and that, in the reign of\cb1 \
\cb3 Queen Elizabeth, it was \uc0\u383 aid, \u383 o voluminous\cb1 \
\cb3 were the Statutes, that they could neither\cb1 \
\cb3 be \uc0\u383 ufficiently under\u383 tood by the lawyers,\cb1 \
\cb3 nor properly ob\uc0\u383 erved and practi\u383 ed by the\cb1 \
\cb3 people*, it is a\uc0\u383 toni\u383 hing to find that the\cb1 \
\cb3 * Gurdon's Hi\uc0\u383 t, of-Parl. Vol. i. p. 396.\cb1 \
\cb3 Engli\uc0\u383 h \u383 hould \u383 till groan under a \u383 till more\cb1 \
\cb3 accumulated burden. *\cb1 \
\cb3 If that happy union of laws \uc0\u383 hould ever\cb1 \
\cb3 take place, which perhaps may be gradually\cb1 \
\cb3 carried into execution, on the plan\cb1 \
\cb3 which Mr. Ju\uc0\u383 tice Barrington has \u383 ugge\u383 ted\cb1 \
\cb3 \'86-, the following differences between the\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotch and Engli\uc0\u383 h legal dialects (partly\cb1 \
\cb3 ari\uc0\u383 ing from greater remains of Normannic\cb1 \
\cb3 juri\uc0\u383 prudence in Scotland, than in England,\cb1 \
\cb3 but principally occa\uc0\u383 ioned by our\cb1 \
\cb3 connexion with France, and the introduction\cb1 \
\cb3 of the civil law into Scotland), will require\cb1 \
\cb3 to be particularly attended to.\cb1 \
\cb3 * There are no le\uc0\u383 s than four thou\u383 and different\cb1 \
\cb3 offences puni\uc0\u383 hable at this time by the laws of England.\cb1 \
\cb3 Vide Addington's Abridgment of the Penal\cb1 \
\cb3 Statutes.\cb1 \
\cb3 \'86 Vide Barring. Ob\uc0\u383 erv. on the Ancient Statutes.\cb1 \
\cb3 Appendix, p. 499.\cb1 \
\cb3 LEGAL WORDS and PHRASES.\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotch. To adduce in proof of any thing.\cb1 \
\cb3 Engli\uc0\u383 h. To produce in proof of any thing.\cb1 \
\cb3 To appretiate [apprecier, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 To apprai\uc0\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 To a\uc0\u383 \u383 olzie [ab\u383 olvere, Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 To acquit.\cb1 \
\cb3 To bruke [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 To enjoy, or po\uc0\u383 \u383 e\u383 s.\cb1 \
\cb3 To compete [competes, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 To enter into competition.\cb1 \
\cb3 To conde\uc0\u383 cend upon [conde\u383 cendre, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 pecify, or enumerate.\cb1 \
\cb3 To depone.\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 wear, to depo\u383 e, or to give evidence.\cb1 \
\cb3 Yet the Engli\uc0\u383 h \u383 ay deponent, and not\cb1 \
\cb3 depo\uc0\u383 ent.\cb1 \
\cb3 To de\uc0\u383 pulzie, and to \u383 pulzie.\cb1 \
\cb3 To rob, \uc0\u383 poil, and plunder.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Scotch words are derived from the\cb1 \
\cb3 French \uc0\u383 polier, and depouiller.\cb1 \
\cb3 To di\uc0\u383 pone.\cb1 \
\cb3 To di\uc0\u383 po\u383 e, devi\u383 e, convey, or transfer.\cb1 \
\cb3 To reply, duply, triply, quadruply, quintuply,\cb1 \
\cb3 &c.\cb1 \
\cb3 To an\uc0\u383 wer, reply, rejoin, rebut, \u383 ur-rebut,\cb1 \
\cb3 &c.; hence the nouns rejoinder, rebutter,\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 ur-rebutter, &c.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Scots imitate the French idiom, re--\cb1 \
\cb3 pliquer, dupliquer, tripler, quadrupler, &c.\cb1 \
\cb3 To excamb [excambere, Law Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 To exchange.\cb1 \
\cb3 In the words derived from the Latin,\cb1 \
\cb3 there is \uc0\u383 ome re\u383 emblance between the\cb1 \
\cb3 O\uc0\u383 can dialect and the Engli\u383 h. Both of them\cb1 \
\cb3 delight in cutting off the ends of the words\cb1 \
\cb3 they have adopted, as if improvement con\uc0\u383 i\u383 ted\cb1 \
\cb3 in mutilation. A thou\uc0\u383 and in\u383 tances\cb1 \
\cb3 occur in the Engli\uc0\u383 h language; and with\cb1 \
\cb3 regard to the O\uc0\u383 can, it contracted c\'e6lum\cb1 \
\cb3 into c\'e6l, \uc0\u383 olidum into \u383 ollum, famulus into\cb1 \
\cb3 famul, and facultas, difficultas, capitalis, into\cb1 \
\cb3 facul, difficul, and capital.\cb1 \
\cb3 To extingui\uc0\u383 h a debt.\cb1 \
\cb3 To pay off a debt by degrees.\cb1 \
\cb3 To hold blench.\cb1 \
\cb3 To hold lands for the payment of a \uc0\u383 mall\cb1 \
\cb3 quitrent.\cb1 \
\cb3 To homologate [homologuer, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 To ratify, or approve.\cb1 \
\cb3 To implement an agreement [implementum,\cb1 \
\cb3 Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 To fulfil an agreement.\cb1 \
\cb3 To incarcerate [incarcero, Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 To impri\uc0\u383 on.\cb1 \
\cb3 Dr. Young, in his Night Thoughts, u\uc0\u383 es\cb1 \
\cb3 incarcerate in a figurative \uc0\u383 en\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 To infeft [infeoder, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 To infeoff.\cb1 \
\cb3 From Bobbin's Glo\uc0\u383 \u383 ary of the Lanca\u383 hire\cb1 \
\cb3 dialect, it would appear that to feft,\cb1 \
\cb3 is made u\uc0\u383 e of in that county, for to give\cb1 \
\cb3 an e\uc0\u383 tate for life, &c.\cb1 \
\cb3 To in\uc0\u383 truct any thing by evidence [in\u383 truire,\cb1 \
\cb3 Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 To prove any thing by evidence.\cb1 \
\cb3 To intromit with a man's goods.\cb1 \
\cb3 To take the po\uc0\u383 \u383 e\u383 \u383 ion, or management, of\cb1 \
\cb3 a man's goods.\cb1 \
\cb3 To give an account of one's intromi\uc0\u383 \u383 ions,\cb1 \
\cb3 is al\uc0\u383 o a common Scotti\u383 h phra\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 To poind [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 To pound.\cb1 \
\cb3 In \uc0\u383 ome places (nor is Scotland an exception),\cb1 \
\cb3 this word is corrupted into pun.\cb1 \
\cb3 To propone a defence.\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 tate, or move a defence.\cb1 \
\cb3 To rebute.\cb1 \
\cb3 To repul\uc0\u383 e, or di\u383 courage.\cb1 \
\cb3 To re\uc0\u383 ile from an agreement [re\u383 ilio, Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 To depart from an agreement.\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 ummons a per\u383 on.\cb1 \
\cb3 To \uc0\u383 ummon a per\u383 on.\cb1 \
\cb3 Summons is the noun, and \uc0\u383 ummon the\cb1 \
\cb3 verb.\cb1 \
\cb3 To waken a plea.\cb1 \
\cb3 To renew, or revive a \uc0\u383 uit.\cb1 \
\cb3 Bygone.\cb1 \
\cb3 Pa\uc0\u383 t.\cb1 \
\cb3 Though bygone may be found in Shake\uc0\u383 pear,\cb1 \
\cb3 yet it is now reckoned a word peculiarly\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotti\uc0\u383 h.\cb1 \
\cb3 Defunct (old Engli\uc0\u383 h, for)\cb1 \
\cb3 Decea\uc0\u383 ed.\cb1 \
\cb3 Le\uc0\u383 um (corrupted from law\u383 um).\cb1 \
\cb3 Lawful.\cb1 \
\cb3 Notour [notoire, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 Notorious.\cb1 \
\cb3 Proven, and its compounds; as improven, &c.\cb1 \
\cb3 Proved, &c.\cb1 \
\cb3 Pled (improperly made u\uc0\u383 e of, for)\cb1 \
\cb3 Pleaded.\cb1 \
\cb3 Onerous [onereux, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 Weighty, \uc0\u383 ufficient, for a valuable con\u383 ideration.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Ex. He, \uc0\u383 old his e\u383 tate for an onerous cau\u383 e,\cb1 \
\cb3 that is for money; and implies a \uc0\u383 ufficient\cb1 \
\cb3 price, in oppo\uc0\u383 ition to gratuitous, which\cb1 \
\cb3 means for nothing, or at lea\uc0\u383 t voluntarily,\cb1 \
\cb3 Relevant [relever, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 Sufficient, valid, lawful.\cb1 \
\cb3 Timous.\cb1 \
\cb3 Timely.\cb1 \
\cb3 Timous is an expre\uc0\u383 \u383 ion u\u383 ed by Bacon,\cb1 \
\cb3 now exploded in England.\cb1 \
\cb3 Udal [ccrrupted from allodium, Feudal Latin].\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Allodial.\cb1 \
\cb3 As no lands in England are held in ab\uc0\u383 olute\cb1 \
\cb3 independence, without acknowledging\cb1 \
\cb3 any Lord Paramount, even allodial is not\cb1 \
\cb3 often made u\uc0\u383 e of.\cb1 \
\cb3 Wrongous.\cb1 \
\cb3 Unlawful, injurious.\cb1 \
\cb3 An act of contravention [contravention, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 A tre\uc0\u383 pa\u383 s.\cb1 \
\cb3 The act of breaking- through any re\uc0\u383 traint\cb1 \
\cb3 impo\uc0\u383 ed by deed, by covenant, or by a\cb1 \
\cb3 court of ju\uc0\u383 tice.\cb1 \
\cb3 An adjudication [adjudication, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 A legal conveyance.\cb1 \
\cb3 It is a legal \uc0\u383 eizure, or judicial conveyance\cb1 \
\cb3 of the debtor's e\uc0\u383 tate, for the creditor's\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 ecurity and payment, corresponding to the\cb1 \
\cb3 Engli\uc0\u383 h writ of Elegit.\cb1 \
\cb3 An advocate [advocatus, Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 A coun\uc0\u383 ellor, or barri\u383 ter.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Lord Advocate of Scotland, is a\cb1 \
\cb3 term equivalent to the Attorney General of\cb1 \
\cb3 England: And coun\uc0\u383 ellors, in Scotland, are\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 aid not to have been called to the bar, but\cb1 \
\cb3 to have pa\uc0\u383 \u383 ed advocate; that is to \u383 ay,\cb1 \
\cb3 have pa\uc0\u383 \u383 ed through all tho\u383 e trials, which,\cb1 \
\cb3 according to the rules of the Scotch bar,\cb1 \
\cb3 mu\uc0\u383 t take place, before any one can enter\cb1 \
\cb3 into that profe\uc0\u383 \u383 ion.\cb1 \
\cb3 Annualrent [annual rente, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 Intere\uc0\u383 t.\cb1 \
\cb3 Caution [caution, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 Bail, \uc0\u383 ecurity, \u383 urety.\cb1 \
\cb3 Cautioner [cautionner, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 Bail, or \uc0\u383 urety.\cb1 \
\cb3 Cedent [cedant, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 A\uc0\u383 \u383 ignor.\cb1 \
\cb3 The complainer.\cb1 \
\cb3 The complainant.\cb1 \
\cb3 A complainer, in England, is a murmurer,\cb1 \
\cb3 or querulous per\uc0\u383 on. The Scots al\u383 o \u383 ay,\cb1 \
\cb3 pur\uc0\u383 uer for plaintiff and defender for re\u383 pondent.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Conque\uc0\u383 t [conqu\'eat, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 Acqui\uc0\u383 itions made by a hu\u383 band or wife,\cb1 \
\cb3 during the exi\uc0\u383 tence of a marriage.\cb1 \
\cb3 Debitor [debitor, Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 Debtor.\cb1 \
\cb3 A decreet [decr\'eat, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 A decree, or deci\uc0\u383 ion.\cb1 \
\cb3 The di\uc0\u383 tinction is, a decree in the Chancery,\cb1 \
\cb3 but a deci\uc0\u383 ion in the Court of King's\cb1 \
\cb3 Bench.\cb1 \
\cb3 A deed of mortification [mortification, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 A gift in mortmain.\cb1 \
\cb3 A perpetual donation for charitable purpo\uc0\u383 es.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 De\uc0\u383 uetude [de\u383 uetudo, Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 Di\uc0\u383 u\u383 e, ce\u383 \u383 ation from being accu\u383 tomed.\cb1 \
\cb3 A doer, (an old Engli\uc0\u383 h word, for)\cb1 \
\cb3 An agent.\cb1 \
\cb3 Expiry of a lea\uc0\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 Expiration of a lea\uc0\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 The fiar (from fee).\cb1 \
\cb3 The perfon who has the fee.\cb1 \
\cb3 The proprietor is termed fiar, in contradi\uc0\u383 tinction\cb1 \
\cb3 to the per\uc0\u383 on who is intitled to\cb1 \
\cb3 the rents of the e\uc0\u383 tate during his own life.\cb1 \
\cb3 Forfaulture [forfaiture, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 Forfeiture.\cb1 \
\cb3 Fortalice [fortere\uc0\u383 \u383 e, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 Ca\uc0\u383 tle, or place of \u383 trength.\cb1 \
\cb3 Interlocutor [interlocutoire, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 Interlocutory \uc0\u383 entence.\cb1 \
\cb3 An interlocutor, in Engli\uc0\u383 h, is a dialogi\u383 t,\cb1 \
\cb3 or one who talks with another.\cb1 \
\cb3 A leit (from let, or 1i\uc0\u383 t).\cb1 \
\cb3 A li\uc0\u383 t of names.\cb1 \
\cb3 Properly, li\uc0\u383 ts of the names of per\u383 ors nominated\cb1 \
\cb3 for any office or employment, which\cb1 \
\cb3 li\uc0\u383 ts mu\u383 t be approved of by tho\u383 e to whom\cb1 \
\cb3 the 1i\uc0\u383 ts are pre\u383 ented.\cb1 \
\cb3 Le\uc0\u383 ion [le\u383 ion, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 Lo\uc0\u383 s, or damage.\cb1 \
\cb3 The libel [libellus, Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 The writ, or inditement.\cb1 \
\cb3 Mails and duties [maille, & devoir, Fr.\cb1 \
\cb3 participle d\'fb].\cb1 \
\cb3 Rents.\cb1 \
\cb3 A march [marche, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 A limit, or boundary.\cb1 \
\cb3 Marches, in the plural, is u\uc0\u383 ed; but it\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 eems more appropriated to the boundary\cb1 \
\cb3 between two kingdoms, than of neighbouring\cb1 \
\cb3 pari\uc0\u383 hes, counties, or e\u383 tates.\cb1 \
\cb3 Multure [mouture, Fr,]\cb1 \
\cb3 A miller's fee for grinding.\cb1 \
\cb3 When the great advantage of water--\cb1 \
\cb3 mills was di\uc0\u383 covered, it was thought proper\cb1 \
\cb3 to give every kind of encouragement to\cb1 \
\cb3 tho\uc0\u383 e who erected them. Thirlage, \u383 ocomes\cb1 \
\cb3 and multure, were then e\uc0\u383 tabli\u383 hed. Thirlage,\cb1 \
\cb3 or an obligation upon certain lands to\cb1 \
\cb3 grind all their grain at a certain mill. Socome,\cb1 \
\cb3 and multure, or dues nece\uc0\u383 \u383 ary to be\cb1 \
\cb3 paid by the po\uc0\u383 \u383 e\u383 \u383 ors of tho\u383 e lands to the\cb1 \
\cb3 occupier of the mill, and the per\uc0\u383 on who.\cb1 \
\cb3 erected it.\cb1 \
\cb3 The pannel [panneau, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 The pri\uc0\u383 oner at the bar.\cb1 \
\cb3 Pri\uc0\u383 oners are called pannels in Scotland,\cb1 \
\cb3 from their being inclo\uc0\u383 ed in a pannel (panneau),\cb1 \
\cb3 or little \uc0\u383 quare, when tried before a\cb1 \
\cb3 judge. And the jury is \uc0\u383 aid to be\cb1 \
\cb3 pannelled, when they are \uc0\u383 hut up by them\u383 elves,\cb1 \
\cb3 until they give their verdict.\cb1 \
\cb3 A proce\uc0\u383 s [proc\'e9s, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 uit, or action at law\cb1 \
\cb3 the provo\uc0\u383 t of a town [prev\'f4t, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 The mayor, or lord mayor of a town.\cb1 \
\cb3 Bailie, is al\uc0\u383 o made u\u383 e of for alderman,\cb1 \
\cb3 burghers for burge\uc0\u383 \u383 es, and trea\u383 urer for\cb1 \
\cb3 chamberlain.\cb1 \
\cb3 A reduction [reduction, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 uit for reducing.\cb1 \
\cb3 An action for voiding or \uc0\u383 etting a\u383 ide\cb1 \
\cb3 any right, whether by agreement, or the\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 entence of a judge.\cb1 \
\cb3 Sheriff depute [deput\'e9, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 Under-\uc0\u383 heriff, or \u383 heriff-deputy.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Engli\uc0\u383 h alfo \u383 ay deputy, and not depute.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Skaith, or \uc0\u383 kath [Saxon].\cb1 \
\cb3 Lo\uc0\u383 s, or damage.\cb1 \
\cb3 Sorners [\uc0\u383 orehon, Iri\u383 h].\cb1 \
\cb3 Vagrants.\cb1 \
\cb3 A man's \uc0\u383 ubjects.\cb1 \
\cb3 A man's goods, effects.\cb1 \
\cb3 Such a man has a very good \uc0\u383 ubject, and\cb1 \
\cb3 his \uc0\u383 ubjects have \u383 old well, are two very\cb1 \
\cb3 common Scotici\uc0\u383 ms.\cb1 \
\cb3 Superplus.\cb1 \
\cb3 Surplus, or overplus.\cb1 \
\cb3 A tack.\cb1 \
\cb3 A lea\uc0\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 Tailzie.\cb1 \
\cb3 Intail.\cb1 \
\cb3 Teinds (from ten).\cb1 \
\cb3 Tithes.\cb1 \
\cb3 Tenements [tenementum, Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 Hou\uc0\u383 es.\cb1 \
\cb3 A tenement of land (which is \uc0\u383 urely a\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotti\uc0\u383 h expre\u383 \u383 ion), is a great collection of\cb1 \
\cb3 hou\uc0\u383 es, one built over the other, in \u383 eparate\cb1 \
\cb3 floors or \uc0\u383 tories.\cb1 \
\cb3 Terce.\cb1 \
\cb3 Legal jointure to a widow of a third of\cb1 \
\cb3 her hu\uc0\u383 band's e\u383 tate.\cb1 \
\cb3 Liferent, is al\uc0\u383 o a Scotch legal term, for\cb1 \
\cb3 annuity.\cb1 \
\cb3 Tin\uc0\u383 el (from tyne, I\u383 landic, to lo\u383 e).\cb1 \
\cb3 Lo\uc0\u383 s, damage.\cb1 \
\cb3 Tolbooth.\cb1 \
\cb3 Prison, jail.\cb1 \
\cb3 A tutor, and curator [Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 A guardian.\cb1 \
\cb3 In England, tutors are what the Scots\cb1 \
\cb3 call governors, domines, or p\'e6dagogues; as\cb1 \
\cb3 travelling tutor.\cb1 \
\cb3 Vacance (as, the \uc0\u383 ummer vacance).\cb1 \
\cb3 Vacation.\cb1 \
\cb3 Wad\uc0\u383 et (from wad, an old word for pledge).\cb1 \
\cb3 Mortgage.\cb1 \
\cb3 Warrandi\uc0\u383 e [warranti\u383 o, Law Latin].\cb1 \
\cb3 Warranty.\cb1 \
\cb3 A writer.\cb1 \
\cb3 An attorney, or \uc0\u383 olicitor.\cb1 \
\cb3 A writer, is properly an author.\cb1 \
\cb3 Heritable \uc0\u383 ecurity.\cb1 \
\cb3 Mortgage.\cb1 \
\cb3 Per\uc0\u383 onal \u383 ecurity, (more commonly)\cb1 \
\cb3 Bond \uc0\u383 ecurity.\cb1 \
\cb3 Lea\uc0\u383 ing making.\cb1 \
\cb3 A \uc0\u383 pecies of trea\u383 on.\cb1 \
\cb3 Liege pou\uc0\u383 tie [legitima pote\u383 tas].\cb1 \
\cb3 Legal power.\cb1 \
\cb3 As effiers [affaire, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 As is proper, or expedient.\cb1 \
\cb3 Failing of him and his heirs.\cb1 \
\cb3 In default of him and his heirs.\cb1 \
\cb3 CLERICAL WORDS and PHRASES.\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotch. To tran\uc0\u383 port an incumbent [tran\u383 porter,\cb1 \
\cb3 Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 Engli\uc0\u383 h. To tran\u383 late an incumbent.\cb1 \
\cb3 A kirk, (an old Engliih word, for)\cb1 \
\cb3 A church.\cb1 \
\cb3 A general a\uc0\u383 \u383 embly of the kirk.\cb1 \
\cb3 A convocation.\cb1 \
\cb3 The church of Scotland claim the right\cb1 \
\cb3 of a\uc0\u383 \u383 embling by their own authority. The\cb1 \
\cb3 clergy of England are convoked by the\cb1 \
\cb3 crown.\cb1 \
\cb3 A loft [Dani\uc0\u383 h ].\cb1 \
\cb3 A gallery.\cb1 \
\cb3 Galleries, in churches, are called lofts in\cb1 \
\cb3 Scotland, and, I believe, in the North of\cb1 \
\cb3 England, from their being rai\uc0\u383 ed "aloft"\cb1 \
\cb3 above the other \uc0\u383 eats of the church. Organ--\cb1 \
\cb3 loft is \uc0\u383 till retained.\cb1 \
\cb3 Stool of repentance, or cutty-\uc0\u383 tool.\cb1 \
\cb3 Church pillory, or place of doing penance.\cb1 \
\cb3 The cutty-\uc0\u383 tool is a kind of pillory in a\cb1 \
\cb3 church, erected for the puni\uc0\u383 hment of tho\u383 e\cb1 \
\cb3 who have tran\uc0\u383 gre\u383 \u383 ed in the article of cha\u383 tity,\cb1 \
\cb3 and, on that account, are liable to\cb1 \
\cb3 the cen\uc0\u383 ures of the church.\cb1 \
\cb3 The ordinance.\cb1 \
\cb3 The \uc0\u383 acrament, or euchari\u383 t.\cb1 \
\cb3 The \uc0\u383 acrament is emphatically called the\cb1 \
\cb3 ordinance, from its having been ordained by\cb1 \
\cb3 our Saviour.\cb1 \
\cb3 Me\uc0\u383 s John, (a ludicrous name for)\cb1 \
\cb3 A par\uc0\u383 on.\cb1 \
\cb3 A good \uc0\u383 tipend, (more commonly in England)\cb1 \
\
\cb3 A good living, cure, or benefice.\cb1 \
\cb3 A precentor [pre\uc0\u383 enteur, Fr.]\cb1 \
\cb3 A clerk.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Scots al\uc0\u383 o \u383 ay, to pre\u383 ent, for to give\cb1 \
\cb3 out the p\uc0\u383 alm.\cb1 \
\cb3 The twentieth and \uc0\u383 econd p\u383 alm.\cb1 \
\cb3 The twenty-\uc0\u383 econd p\u383 alm.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Scotch phra\uc0\u383 e would imply, that a\cb1 \
\cb3 certain number of lines out of the twentieth),\cb1 \
\cb3 and \uc0\u383 o many out of the \u383 econd p\u383 alm\cb1 \
\cb3 were to be \uc0\u383 ung.\cb1 \
\cb3 The man\uc0\u383 e (u\u383 ually in England)\cb1 \
\cb3 The par\uc0\u383 onage-hou\u383 e.\cb1 \
\cb3 Man\uc0\u383 e, which comes from the Latin word\cb1 \
\cb3 man\uc0\u383 io, is \u383 ometimes made u\u383 e of in England;\cb1 \
\cb3 but par\uc0\u383 onage-hou\u383 e is more common.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Author has now concluded a \uc0\u383 ubject,\cb1 \
\cb3 which the pro\uc0\u383 pect he had at an early period\cb1 \
\cb3 of life, of being obliged to \uc0\u383 peak in public,\cb1 \
\cb3 fir\uc0\u383 t induced him to con\u383 ider. \'97 He conceived,\cb1 \
\cb3 that any one who addre\uc0\u383 \u383 ed the\cb1 \
\cb3 Public, either at the bar, or as the repre\uc0\u383 entative\cb1 \
\cb3 of a number of re\uc0\u383 pectable and\cb1 \
\cb3 independent gentlemen, ought not to be\cb1 \
\cb3 di\uc0\u383 tingui\u383 hed by a ru\u383 tic \u383 tile, or a provincial\cb1 \
\cb3 dialect; and he now flatters him\uc0\u383 elf,\cb1 \
\cb3 that the pains he took to correct his own\cb1 \
\cb3 language, may have led him to make \uc0\u383 uch\cb1 \
\cb3 ob\uc0\u383 ervations as may be of \u383 ervice to many\cb1 \
\cb3 of his countrymen, who are under the\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 ame predicament.\cb1 \
\cb3 The \uc0\u383 ubject he has ventured to write\cb1 \
\cb3 upon, includes an infinite variety of particulars,\cb1 \
\cb3 many of which, from the very nature\cb1 \
\cb3 of language, mu\uc0\u383 t nece\u383 \u383 arily be fluctuating\cb1 \
\cb3 and capricious; he hopes, therefore,\cb1 \
\cb3 the candid critic, who is acquainted with\cb1 \
\cb3 the difficulty of the undertaking, will excu\uc0\u383 e\cb1 \
\cb3 any imperfections that may have attended\cb1 \
\cb3 the execution; e\uc0\u383 pecially as accuracy\cb1 \
\cb3 and elegance of \uc0\u383 tile, however de\u383 irable,\cb1 \
\cb3 could only be con\uc0\u383 idered by the Author\cb1 \
\cb3 in his hours of lei\uc0\u383 ure from more\cb1 \
\cb3 important pur\uc0\u383 uits.\cb1 \
\cb3 This, it may be ob\uc0\u383 erved, is the large\u383 t\cb1 \
\cb3 collection of Scotici\uc0\u383 ms that has hitherto\cb1 \
\cb3 been offered to the Public; and without\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 uch aid, any con\u383 iderable improvement in\cb1 \
\cb3 the language of a Scotchman would require\cb1 \
\cb3 much labour and attention. The\cb1 \
\cb3 collection has been of con\uc0\u383 iderable \u383 ervice\cb1 \
\cb3 to the Author; and any trouble he has had\cb1 \
\cb3 in arranging the materials, will be amply\cb1 \
\cb3 compen\uc0\u383 ated, if it \u383 hall tend to remove \u383 o\cb1 \
\cb3 con\uc0\u383 picuous and unplea\u383 ing a mark of di\u383 tinction\cb1 \
\cb3 between South and North Britain.\cb1 \
\cb3 But it mu\uc0\u383 t not be imagined that bad\cb1 \
\cb3 language, and improper or ob\uc0\u383 olete words\cb1 \
\cb3 and phra\uc0\u383 es, are entirely confined to Scotland.\cb1 \
\cb3 On the contrary, if England were to be\cb1 \
\cb3 ran\uc0\u383 acked, as numerous a li\u383 t of improprieties\cb1 \
\cb3 as is contained in this collection, might\cb1 \
\cb3 be exhibited to the world, of defects both\cb1 \
\cb3 in writing and speaking: Nor is the capital\cb1 \
\cb3 it\uc0\u383 elf exempted, though in general accounted\cb1 \
\cb3 the \uc0\u383 tandard of good language. And,\cb1 \
\cb3 although it is proper for the Scots to acquire\cb1 \
\cb3 the real and genuine Engli\uc0\u383 h words\cb1 \
\cb3 and phra\uc0\u383 es; yet \u383 uch as are either provincial,\cb1 \
\cb3 vulgar, or cockney, ought to be carefully\cb1 \
\cb3 avoided.\cb1 \
\cb3 The provinvial phra\uc0\u383 es made u\u383 e of in\cb1 \
\cb3 the various di\uc0\u383 tricts into which England is\cb1 \
\cb3 divided, would form a work both large and\cb1 \
\cb3 curious; and, from the \uc0\u383 pecimens I have\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 een, would contain many words and idioms,\cb1 \
\cb3 at pre\uc0\u383 ent \u383 uppo\u383 ed peculiar to Scotland:\cb1 \
\cb3 But there are many of them of a\cb1 \
\cb3 more confined and local nature, and fully\cb1 \
\cb3 as ab\uc0\u383 urd and ridiculous, as any to which\cb1 \
\cb3 the Scots are addicted. \'97 For example, \uc0\u383 ay\cb1 \
\cb3 of it (corrupted from a\uc0\u383 \u383 ay), for ta\u383 te of it;\cb1 \
\cb3 a few broth, for a little broth; a couple of\cb1 \
\cb3 pea\uc0\u383 e, for a few pea\u383 e; how he did do, for\cb1 \
\cb3 how he was; without knowing to you, for\cb1 \
\cb3 without being known to you; yes \uc0\u383 ure, and no\cb1 \
\cb3 \uc0\u383 ure, for yes and no, and the like.\cb1 \
\cb3 Vulgar phra\uc0\u383 es are equally exceptionable.\cb1 \
\cb3 For in\uc0\u383 tance, cutting a figure, for making a\cb1 \
\cb3 figure; prizes, for prices; much le\uc0\u383 s expen\u383 es,\cb1 \
\cb3 for much le\uc0\u383 s expence; in all my born days,\cb1 \
\cb3 for \uc0\u383 ince I was born; quarten's hour, for a\cb1 \
\cb3 quarter of an hour, &c.\cb1 \
\cb3 Cockney phra\uc0\u383 es, a Scotchman is very\cb1 \
\cb3 apt to get into when he makes his fir\uc0\u383 t\cb1 \
\cb3 appearance in London. And when he can\cb1 \
\cb3 ea\uc0\u383 ily and fluently bring out, this here\cb1 \
\cb3 thing, and that there thing, for this or that\cb1 \
\cb3 thing; I knode, for I knew; on it, for of it,\cb1 \
\cb3 as, I heard on it; gra\uc0\u383 s, for a\u383 paragus; your'n\cb1 \
\cb3 and his'n, for yours and his, he fancies\cb1 \
\cb3 him\uc0\u383 elf a complete Engli\u383 hman. It is a\cb1 \
\cb3 common ob\uc0\u383 ervation, that bad habits are\cb1 \
\cb3 more ea\uc0\u383 ily, and indeed are more generally\cb1 \
\cb3 acquired, than good ones, and experience\cb1 \
\cb3 proves the ob\uc0\u383 ervation to be true,\cb1 \
\cb3 with re\uc0\u383 pect to language.\cb1 \
\cb3 FINIS.\
}